https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1248



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



November 15,  2017


New Faculty Spotlight: Professor Katie Salen Tekinbaş Explores the Potential of Play

Katie Salen Tekinbaş, Professor of Informatics, joined the ICS faculty in September 2017.

Q: Can you tell us about your background?
I was trained in graphic design but quickly started working with interactivity after teaching web development and interface design. I fell into games when I started bringing nondigital games into my interactive design classrooms to teach students how to design a really engaging system. Games are incredibly beautiful self-descriptive systems; they have to be engaging because a player can just walk away at any point. I actually became a practicing game designer for a while, working with Gamelab and Microsoft Research in the Xbox division, but I always kept one foot in academia.
Then, about 10 years ago, I started exploring the relationship between games and learning and launched Institute of Play, a nonprofit design studio focused on pioneering new models of learning and engagement. This became my lab, where I collaborated with others to develop and implement a research-based approach to infusing learning with principles of game design and play. Quest to Learn, a New York City public school organized around these ideas, was developed through the institute, and we created a rich array of youth and educator-facing programs, tools and resources.
I most recently taught at DePaul University, where I helped start a new School of Design and I taught courses in game design and development. I left DePaul to launch a games and assessment lab in California and to start Connected Camps with UCI Informatics Professor Mimi Ito and Tara Tiger Brown.
Q: Is that what brought you to UCI?
After years of work on Quest to Learn and Institute of Play, I was ready to find a way to amplify the work, and UCI felt like the perfect setting. I had been collaborating for a long time with Mimi and with UCI’s Dean of Education, Richard Arum, as a member of the Connected Learning Research Network, and I was interested in being part of the Connected Learning Lab, led by Mimi. I’ve been part of the work around connected learning for more than a decade, so I was interested in using the lab to continue the work I began at Institute of Play, doing transformative design-based work with young people and educators.
Q: Can you talk more about some of the projects you’ve been involved with and your approach to learning?
I’m interested in the aesthetics of interactive systems and the transformative potential of play. I’m trying to figure out how you develop really engaging experiences for young people that are centered around their interests. We can learn a lot from what games do; how they organize experiences for players; and how they deal with feedback, challenges and problem solving. For example, Quest to Learn is a school designed to support students and teachers in developing fluency in design thinking, problem solving, and systems thinking through an approach centered on creating challenging and engaging game-like learning experiences.
With Connected Camps, the nonprofit I run with Mimi, my focus has been on understanding the design dimensions of the products we offer — from how programs are structured to the culture we are cultivating online with youth, to structures facilitating informal mentoring between our college counselors and the kids we serve. We run a blog called Connected Parenting that explores ways of making games and the internet a force for good in the lives of kids, and we are working really hard to understand, from a business perspective, how to scale the platform in ways that makes it accessible to all youth. We are working at the intersection of industry, philanthropy and academia to find solutions. Industry drives the technology development and outreach, philanthropists and nonprofits focus on the social impact, and the academics are the ones who provide the theoretical foundation.
Q: Speaking of academia, what courses will you be teaching this year?
This winter, for the Master of Human-Computer Interaction & Design program, I’ll be teaching Advanced Prototyping and Design. I’ll also be teaching a freshman-level GE course, Game Systems and Design, which is part of the Computer Game Science program.
Q: What do you like best so far about UCI?
The peer environment has been fantastic. My colleagues are super collegial and open to sharing, creating a really supportive environment.
Q: What do you do in your spare time?
I have 2-year-old twins, so they take up most of my spare time, but I love reading and playing video games.
Q: Is there a book you wish everyone would read?
One I always suggest is Pedagogy of the Oppressed, by Paulo Freire, which has influenced my approach to teaching and inspires me daily. And the newest book I really love is Weapons of Math Destruction: How Big Data Increases Inequality and Threatens Democracy, by Cathy O’Neil. It’s a very timely book about the ways in which algorithms are increasingly structuring inequality.

New Faculty Spotlight: Professor Katie Salen Tekinbaş Explores the Potential of Play
< Previous
 Tsudik Awarded Cisco Gift to Research Wireless Content-Centric Network Challenges

            
Next >
 Dourish’s Collaborative Work on #thismymob Grant Supports Indigenous Communities

            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











