http://www.ics.uci.edu/~stasio/winter06/lab5/lab5.html


ICS H22 Winter06, Lab 5

Lab #5

			Due: Friday, March 10, 11:59PM

		In this lab you write a program that simulates a ride at a theme park. In this 
		ride, people get into a small boat, navigate the boat through a course of 
		obstacles and then dock and leave the boat. Management would like to assess how 
		long people spend waiting for the ride and as well as how much utilization they 
		are getting out of each boat. Note that each person takes a variable amount to 
		time to navigate the course, so the order they depart is not necessarily the 
		order in which they leave. Also, there is only one spot on the dock where a 
		person can get into a boat, so while the person is climbing in, boats must wait 
		in line. This means you will have to have two queues: one for people waiting to 
		board a boat and one for boats waiting to be boarded. For simplicity, you can 
		assume that unloading from the boat happens quickly and doesn't need to be 
		accounted for.
		
			The interface should be whatever you like:  The easiest is the console 
			input.  The inputs to the simulation will include the average 
				inter-arrival time of riders, the average loading time 
			for a rider, the average ride time for a rider, the total length 
				of the simulation and the number of boats
		. The inter-arrival time of riders is the length of time that elapses after one 
		riders arrives until the next one arrives. This will vary from rider to rider, 
		but you can input the average value so that you can examine the system under 
		different levels of demand. Similarly, the loading and ride time of each person 
		will vary, but you can specify the average of these values.
		
		Time is measured in an arbitrary unit which we will call `clock ticks'. It's 
		not terribly important what a clock tick actually represents because all the 
		values are relative. Any interval of time (including the average values input 
		by the user) should be specified as integers, so time is rounded to the nearest 
		clock tick. I recommend that you keep the average inter-arrival time of riders 
		to be at least 100 so as to minimize the effects of rounding. If the 
		inter-arrival time is 100, then you should simulate the system for about a 
		million clock ticks so that the values that you are measuring will converge to 
		an average value. (The longer you run the simulation, the more stable these 
		values will be).
		
			The running time of your algorithm should not depend on the 
			number of clock ticks that you run your simulation. This is because you should 
			write your code as an event-driven simulation. That is, you 
			will determine the next event (whether it be the arrival of a person to the 
			rider, the departure of a boat with a rider from the dock, the return of a boat 
			and rider to the dock) and advance the clock automatically to the time of the 
			next event. That is, your program should take roughly the same amount of time 
			if the average inter-arrival time, loading time and riding time is 10 and the 
			simulation length is 1000 as it would if all of these values were multiplied by 
			10.  In order to do that you should store all your future events on a Priority 
				Queue, where the events are ordered by the time they are scheduled 
			to occur.  To determine the next event, you just have to take the element 
			with the smallest time value.  The code for the Priority Queue
			class is supplied below. 
The PriorityQueue is written as a generic data structure so that it can store 
			any set of items which implements the interface Comparable which 
			I have also provided for you. Note that your class which implements Comparable 
			will have to implement a method compareTo because it is declared 
			as an abstract method in Comparable. The deleteMin() 
		method returns the item with the smallest values according to the compareTo 
		method.
		
			You are also provided with other classes to use, e.g. the EventGenerator, 
			which generates the arrival of riders. Your program should have an instance of 
			this class to generate the input data. Before you run your simulation, you 
			should use the following method to inform the event generator of the parameters 
			input by the user:

public void setParameters( int avgInterArrivalTime, int avgLoadingTime, int 
						avgRideTime ) 


			Note that the EventGenerator is expecting positive integers. If you call the 
			method with a zero or negative integer, then it will throw a IllegalTimeValueException
			(also provided). Whenever, your simulator needs to generate a new 
			customer, you should use the following method:
			

public Rider getNextEvent( int lastArrival ) 


			This method takes in the time that the last customer arrived and will return a 
			new instance of class Rider . Class Rider keeps the arrival 
			time and loading time and riding time for that particular customer. You may 
			want to add some additional data members or methods to class Rider 
		.
		
			The EventGenerator uses a random number generator to produce the inter-arrival 
			time, loading time and riding time for the particular customer. On average, the 
			values generated will match the average values input by the user, but there are 
			some random fluctuations in the values. In this case, it is implemented as a 
				Poisson Process 
		. You will probably learn about these some time in your career here in 
		ICS.  For example, this is the standard probabilistic process which we use 
		to simulate networking events like packet arrivals.  In fact, the code you 
		are writing in this lab, for boat-and-riders simulation, is based on the same 
		principes as real-life simulators of networks, chips, distributed computing 
		applications, biological systems, etc, etc.
		
			You should also use the priority queue data structure to store the boat/rider 
			pairs are currently out on the course. You want to store these in a priority 
			queue since you will need to determine which one returns next. The constructor 
			for PriorityQueue takes in a value which is the maximum number of items that 
			will ever be stored in the priority queue. Each time you run a simulation, you 
			should create an instance of class PriorityQueue in which this value is set to 
			be the number of boats. The method add throws an instance of class 
				QueueFullException 
		(also provided) if you attempt to add an item when the priority queue is full. 
		You will need to provide code which will catch that exception when you call the 
		add method.
		
			You will need to write your own class Queue 
		. This should also be written as a generic data structure. In particular, you 
		will have an instance of Queue which stores instances of Boat and an instance 
		which stores instances of Rider. You can choose how you want to implement your 
		queue. However, your choice must be completely transparent to the user.
		
			The statistics which you should print out after processing all the events are:
		


			Total number of rider served.
			
			Average and maximum waiting time of a rider.
			
			Average and maximum percentage of time that a boat is waiting.
			
				Average rider queue length - averaged over all clock ticks.
			



What to turn in: 



			As usual, you should turn in an electronic copy of your code to the electronic 
			dropboxes.
			
				You should also write up a brief report on the experiments you run with your 
				program. Your report answer the following questions:
				

					Suppose the average inter-arrival time is 100, the average ride time is 1000 
					and the average loading time is 100 and the number of boats is 12. What is a 
					more effective way to reduce the waiting time - buy more boats or build a 
					longer loading dock so that customers can board two boats at a time? You can 
					approximate the effect of loading two boats at a time by assuming the loading 
					time is cut in half. Answer this question by determining the number of boats 
					that need to be bought to match the effect of lengthening the dock. Is your 
					answer the same if you started with 20 boats?
					
					Suppose that management has determined that the average waiting time customers 
					are willing to tolerate is exactly the average rider+loading time. Suppose that 
					the average ride time is 1000, average loading time is 50 and the number of 
					boats is 20. What is the maximum traffic level (i.e. average inter-arrival 
					time) that can be tolerated and still satisfy this constraint?
					
						Suppose that management has determined that as long as the average rider queue 
						length is at most 50 riders, people will continue to use the ride. Suppose that 
						the average ride time is 1000, the average loading time is 50 and the number of 
						boats is 20. What is the maximum traffic level (i.e. average inter-arrival 
						time) that can be tolerated and still satisfy this constraint?
					



		Here are the files you will need.
		

EventGenerator.java
			[modified 3/08 at 8:25pm, modified 3/10 at 2pm]
			
Event.java 
			[added 3/08 at 8:25pm, modified 3/12 at 11:32am]
			
Rider.java 

PriorityQueue.java
				

Comparable.java
				

QueueFullException.java
				


					IllegalTimeValueException.java 




