https://www.ics.uci.edu/~iftekha/publication/how-verified-is-my-code-falsification-driven-verification





















How Verified is My Code Falsification-Driven Verification | 






Toggle navigation










Home




Research Group




Research




Publications




Awards




Projects




Experience




CV and Resume




Service




Contact




Advice








How Verified is My Code Falsification-Driven Verification

      
      Alex Groce, Iftekhar Ahmed, Carlos Jensen, Paul E. McKenney
      
    


































Abstract
Formal verification has advanced to the point that developers can verify the correctness of small, critical modules. Unfortunately, despite considerable efforts, determining if a “verification” verifies what the author intends is still difficult. Previous approaches are difficult to understand and often limited in applicability. Developers need verification coverage in terms of the software they are verifying, not model checking diagnostics. We propose a methodology to allow developers to determine (and correct) what it is that they have verified, and tools to support that methodology. Our basic approach is based on a novel variation of mutation analysis and the idea of verification driven by falsification. We use the CBMC model checker to show that this approach is applicable not only to simple data structures and sorting routines, and verification of a routine in Mozilla’s JavaScript engine, but to understanding an ongoing effort to verify the Linux kernel Read-Copy-Update (RCU) mechanism.




Type


            Conference proceedings
          










Publication
In 30th ACM/IEEE  International  Conference  on  Automated Software Engineering (ASE), ACM/IEEE.









Date

          July, 2015
        









Links


  PDF













← An Exploration of Code Quality in FOSS Projects
How Hard Does Mutation Analysis Have to Be, Anyway? →







      © 2020 Iftekhar Ahmed · 

      Powered by the Academic
      theme for Hugo.

      




















