https://www.ics.uci.edu/~iftekha/publication/mutation-reduction-strategies-considered-harmful





















Mutation Reduction Strategies Considered Harmful | 






Toggle navigation










Home




Research Group




Research




Publications




Awards




Projects




Experience




CV and Resume




Service




Contact




Advice








Mutation Reduction Strategies Considered Harmful

      
      Rahul Gopinath, Iftekhar Ahmed, Amin Alipour, Carlos Jensen, Alex Groce
      
    


































Abstract
Mutation analysis is a well-known yet unfortunately costly method for measuring test suite quality. Researchers have proposed numerous mutation reduction strategies in order to reduce the high cost of mutation analysis, while preserving the representativeness of the original set of mutants. As mutation reduction is an area of active research, it is important to understand the limits of possible improvements. We theoretically and empirically investigate the limits of improvement in effectiveness from using mutation reduction strategies compared to random sampling. Using real-world open source programs as subjects, we find an absolute limit in improvement of effectiveness over random sampling —13.078%. Given our findings with respect to absolute limits, one may ask: how effective are the extant mutation reduction strategies? We evaluate the effectiveness of multiple mutation reduction strategies in comparison to random sampling. We find that none of the mutation reduction strategies evaluated —many forms of operator selection, and stratified sampling (on operators or program elements) —produced an effectiveness advantage larger than 5% in comparison with random sampling. Given the poor performance of mutation selection strategies — they may have a negligible advantage at best, and often perform worse than random sampling – we caution practicing testers against applying mutation reduction strategies without adequate justification.




Type


            Journal
          










Publication
In IEEE Transactions on Reliability, IEEE.









Date

          May, 2017
        









Links


  PDF













← Can Testedness be Effectively Measured?
Applying Mutation Analysis On Kernel Test Suites An Experience Report. →







      © 2020 Iftekhar Ahmed · 

      Powered by the Academic
      theme for Hugo.

      




















