https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1489



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



February 14,  2019


Informatics Professor Gillian Hayes Receives Social Impact Award


Winners of the 2019 SIGCHI Awards have been announced, and the Social Impact Award went to Gillian Hayes, the Robert A. and Barbara L. Kleist Professor in Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS). The award, which comes with an honorarium of $5,000, recognizes those “who promote the application of human-computer interaction research to pressing social needs.”

Focusing much of her HCI research on vulnerable populations, including children and under-represented groups, Hayes excels in this area. Working with postdoc and Ph.D. students in UCI’s Social & Technological Action Research Group (STAR), she collaborates with researchers from around the world on projects like the CoolCraig app that supports families living with ADHD and the Tangible Desktop that allows blind computer users to get many of the same benefits of a graphical user interface through tangible interactions.
“I was so pleased when I found out I had won the award,” says Hayes. “To me, this award is a recognition of my entire research group and the community in which we work.”
Her leadership role in a variety of organizations further extends the impact of research. For example, as director of technology research for the Center for Autism and Neurodevelopmental Disorders and as chief science officer for Tiwahe Technology, she studies autism and technology and helps transforms the knowledge gained into real-world products and tools. She is also on the board for Team Kids, an Orange County-based nonprofit that “empowers children to change the world” through philanthropic projects, and is a sustaining member of the Junior League of Orange County, which works to create a “community of compassionate kids.”
Her work is inspiring, yet she is quick to highlight the accomplishments of prior award recipients as well. “I am also just really flattered to be included in the group of researchers, all of whom I admire, who won this award in the years before me.”
The Social Impact Award was first awarded to Gregg Vanderheiden in 2005 for his pioneering work in providing access to technology for people with disabilities. Hayes is the 19th member to join this distinguished group of researchers leading the way in using HCI for social good.
— Shani Murray

Informatics Professor Gillian Hayes Receives Social Impact Award
< Previous
 California’s ‘smart’ energy future glows on the horizon—but how to get there?
            
Next >
 ICS Honors Four Alumni at 2019 Hall of Fame Celebration
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











