https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1788



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



June 22,  2020


Ph.D. Student Mayara Costa Figueiredo Receives 2020 Microsoft Research Dissertation Grant



Informatics Ph.D. candidate Mayara Costa Figueiredo is the recipient of a 2020 Microsoft Research Dissertation Grant, earning her $24,000 for the 2020-2021 academic year along with an invitation to present her research at a virtual two-day Ph.D. Summit later in the year. Microsoft awards the grant to Ph.D. students at North American universities who are underrepresented in the field of computing. Of the 225 proposals received, only 10 were selected.

“When I received the email, I was incredibly surprised and happy,” says Figueiredo, who almost didn’t apply for the grant because of all the changes going on related to the global pandemic. Earning the grant, however, has “kind of worked as a personal encouragement in such complicated times.”
The funding will help her focus on finalizing her dissertation, “Self-Tracking for Fertility Care: A Holistic Approach.” She is researching the wide range of activities involved in collecting and reflecting on personal health data related to fertility — activities such as trying to conceive, avoiding conception or tracking your menstrual cycle — and how apps can better support different activities and goals, especially during times of transition.
“Due to COVID-19 and social distancing measures, I am still figuring out if it will be possible to conduct focus groups online, so those plans are passing through adaptations,” says Figueiredo. “We are currently considering using our prototypes as design probes for an online interview study and for an online survey.” This will be her main focus over the summer, and then she will attend the Ph.D. Summit in the fall. “I am excited to meet senior researchers at Microsoft, learn from their work, and hopefully receive feedback for my dissertation.”
The grant is part of Microsoft’s effort to actively foster greater levels of diversity in its workforce and pipeline of future researchers. “Being a woman in computer science has always kind of implied being within the minority. We were six out of 40 in the beginning of my undergraduate course,” she says. “Later, in my first job, I was the only woman on the team.” She says this never stopped her, but it did make things more challenging. “Representativity matters. Recognizing yourself in your peers and professors matters,” she says. “Efforts such as this grant are important because we need to not only get minorities interested in computer science but also provide the necessary conditions for these minorities to thrive.”
— Shani Murray

Ph.D. Student Mayara Costa Figueiredo Receives 2020 Microsoft Research Dissertation Grant
< Previous
 At-Home Workers Face Hacking Threat
            
Next >
 Get A Comfortable Chair: Permanent Work From Home Is Coming
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











