https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1406



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



August 13,  2018


Nardi’s Paper on Instant Messaging Receives Lasting Impact Award

 Since 2014, the Lasting Impact Award has been awarded annually at the ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work and Social Computing (CSCW). It recognizes a paper published at the CSCW conference at least 10 years prior that has been extremely influential. This year’s award goes to “Interaction and Outeraction: Instant Messaging in Action,” a paper written in 2000 by Informatics Professor Bonnie Nardi, UC Santa Cruz Professor Steve Whittaker and former Informatics Ph.D. student Erin Bradner, now the director of robotics at Autodesk.

“As far as I know, this was the first empirical study of the use of instant messaging,” says Nardi. The technology itself had been around for a while, but in 2000, it was just starting to go mainstream through platforms such as AOL’s Instant Messenger (AIM). “This made it interesting for a study of computer-supported collaborative work.”
In talking to workers about how they used instant messaging (IM), Nardi, Whittaker and Bradner found that IM not only facilitated workplace tasks but also brought friends and family (virtually) into the workday. “The data allowed us to complicate communication theory, which had been taken to be mostly about information transfer,” explains Nardi. Through their work, they noted several meta processes, such as negotiating conversational availability, using IM to switch to other media if needed, generating feelings of connection, and creating spaces of ongoing conversations broken up by pauses of minutes or even hours. “One of my favorite stories in the data,” says Nardi, “was the boss and his admin who shouted to each other in the morning when no one was around and then switched to IM when people began to arrive — showing that IM can be used as a direct substitute for voice, depending on context.”
Although the old platforms no longer exist, IM is now an integral part of everyday social media sites and of business and gaming applications. Nardi believes the paper is being recognized because it “combined strong empirical work, theory, and a first look at an enduring technology.” It considered communication theories from psychology, ethnomethodology, media studies and human-computer interaction, using data to point out aspects of computer-mediated communication missing in such theories.
The Lasting Impact Award will be presented at CSCW 2018 the first week of November in New Jersey. Bringing together top researchers and practitioners, CSCW explores the technical, social, material and theoretical challenges of designing technology to support collaborative work and life activities.
“I am thrilled to receive this award! It’s very nice to see an article that you wrote has had a long shelf life,” says Nardi. “And certainly an award like this will extend it a bit more.”
— Shani Murray

Nardi’s Paper on Instant Messaging Receives Lasting Impact Award
< Previous
 Telepresence Learning with Robots at UC Irvine
            
Next >
 Episode 333: Marian Petre and André van der Hoek on Software Design
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











