https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1319



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



April 10,  2018


ICS Students Awarded National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowships



Three Ph.D. students in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences have received National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowships: Amari Lewis, Samantha McDonald and Arash Nabili.


Since 1952, the Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) has helped the NSF develop a globally engaged workforce, recruiting high-potential, early-career scientists and engineers who work to advance the nation’s science and engineering research and innovation. In particular, GRFP aims to increase the diversity of the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) workforce, supporting master’s and doctoral students from various geographic regions as well as women, underrepresented minorities, persons with disabilities and veterans.




Selected from more than 12,000 applicants, the 2,000 new awardees come from all 50 U.S. states, as well as from the District of Columbia and U.S. territories, and each will receive three years of financial support within a five-year fellowship period. The three ICS awardees from UCI represent a diverse group of students and research interests.





Computer science Ph.D. student Amari Lewis was completely shocked by the news. “I screamed and cried with joy,” she says, noting how “instrumental” her research advisor, Professor Amelia Regan, and mentors, Professor Nalini Venkatasubramanian and Assistant Dean Sharnnia Artis from the Office of Access and Inclusion, have been throughout her journey at UCI. “I feel so honored to be a recipient of the NSF GRFP,” she says, “and I am truly excited about my research.” In particular, Lewis is working to produce a cyber physical paratransit system — that is, a system that provides transportation services for the elderly and disabled. Her goal is to “create a cloud-based client-server paratransit system using low-cost materials.” As a result, she hopes to “increase the accessibility and suitability of these systems for the specified populations.”


Check out a video on Lewis and her research. 


Informatics Ph.D. student Samantha McDonald was also so happy she screamed when learning about the fellowship, and she is grateful for her advisor, Professor Bonnie Nardi, for her “amazing support and enthusiasm for my work.” The focus of McDonald's work is constituent-communication systems in congressional offices. “I am researching how the presence and use of information and communications technology affect how staffers in Congress manage contact from constituents,” she says, “and how those systems reflect deeper ideas of citizen engagement within a digitally mediated democracy.” McDonald is collaborating with Congress and partnering organizations to use her research as insight into creating better technology for higher quality relationships between citizens and policymakers.


Read more about McDonald and her research. 


Computer science Ph.D. student Arash Nabili says he owes this achievement to the generous support of his advisor, also Professor Amelia Regan, and to the invaluable guidance provided by his friends and mentors, UCI Professor Tony Givargis and Professor Frank Vahid from UC Riverside. Nabili is focused on developing a framework for cooperative driving for autonomous vehicles. “It involves combining autonomous vehicles’ sensors with V2X [vehicle-to-everything] communication to achieve increased safety and traffic throughput for vehicles on the road,” he explains. Upon receiving the acceptance email, Nabili says “the news gave me a renewed sense of motivation and determination to continue my research, as the award is, to me, a validation of my research efforts in graduate school.”




— Shani Murray

ICS Students Awarded National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowships
< Previous
 "Computer Vision for the Masses: Bringing Computer Vision to the Open Web Platform" by CS Professors Alexandru Nicolau and Alexander Veidenbaum, and Ph.D. Candidate Sajjad Taheri
            
Next >
 Geoffrey C. Bowker Recognized as Donald Bren Professor
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











