https://www.ics.uci.edu/~jnnorton








Juliet Norton's Research Page





















 Juliet Norton
                









About


Dissertation


Other Projects


CV


Contact













Juliet Norton
Researching the intersection of computing  and sustainable food production.












About Juliet
I recently defended my PhD dissertation in the Informatics Department at University of California, Irvine’s Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. I am studying the intersection between computing and sustainable agriculture under the advisement of Professor Bill Tomlinson. During my tenure at UCI I have had the pleasure of leading the development of the permaculture research site at the UCI Arboretum. I also participated in a number of campus food and sustainability programs including UCI Food Conference, the California Higher Education Food Summit (CHEFS), the Campus as a Living Lab series, and the Google Computer Science Research Workshop for Women (exploreCSR) at Cal State University, Long Beach.
I earned my MS in Computer Science and BA in Digital Media from the University of Central Florida. My interest in sustainable agriculture matured while in Orlando, and was motivated by undergraduate research regarding the Everglades, oyster bed and mangrove restoration in Canaveral National Seashore, gardening at the UCF arboretum, and practicing permaculture at a local farm.








Dissertation Project
The Software for Agricultural Ecosystems (SAGE) project at UCI aims to help people in Southern California design sustainable polycultures for personal use. A sustainable polyculture is a mutually dependent group of perennial and self-seeding annual plants designed to thrive with little or no external inputs and provide significant amounts of human resources.
For more information, visit http://perennialpolycultures.ics.uci.edu/.








Other Projects

Open Agricultural Technology and Sustainable Food Systems

Gathering for Open Agricultural Technology (GOAT)

Graduate Research @ UCI

Sustainable Polyculture Project

Food and Sustainability in Southern California

UCI Arboretum
Eco-Apprentices and the Eco-Design Guild at The Ecology Center
UCI Garden Project
California Higher Education Summit
Edible Education - UCI Food Conference



Permaculture and Gardening in Florida

UCF Arboretum
Simple Living Institute

Graduate Research @ UCF

Water's Journey Through the Everglades
Full Body Navigation Interfaces
Lunar Quest
Minds of Chimera



Undergraduate Research @ UCF

Lunar Lunge
M4: MOUT
MR Warehouse
MR Restaurant
Smash Me









CV
View the pdf








Contact me!
jnnorton@uci.edu









Copyright © Juliet Norton 2019

















