http://www.ics.uci.edu/%7Ejacobson/ics45J/ICS45J.html





ICS 45J Fall 2012





ICS 45J Fall 2012
Course Web Page




Quick Links
Announcements

Getting Started in ICS 45J
Advice, Hints and Cautions

Course Reference
Course Schedule
Enrollment Information

Lab Manual

Setting Up Java at Home

Sample Exam Questions

ICS 45J Course Grades
A Note on Course Grade Computation







Getting Started in ICS 45J

Follow these steps to get started in ICS 45J:

Read now, and reference throughout the quarter,
	
this page, the “course web page”
the Course Reference, the main document that details this course
the Course Schedule, for a schedule of lectures and their associated readings and example programs, the dates of exams and the due dates of evaluations
the  Enrollment Information page, to learn how to add or drop the course, or change your lab section or grade option
through the section "Lab Exam 1" of the Lab Manual; the Manual contains lab policies and procedures; details about pair programming, lab partner evaluations, lab exams and their scoring; and the lab assignments that prepare you for the lab exams

Get a print copy of the textbook, or sign up for the on-line version, or both
Undetake these lab-related activities; detailed instructions are in the Lab Manual:
	
Obtain a memory stick or mini hard drive, or access other means (e.g., your H drive) to back up your work
	Get a print card, if you plan to use lab printers
	Activate your UCInetID
	Activate your ICS account
	Find a pair programming partner
	Learn about UCI email, the lab set-up, Eclipse, and other basic computing skills needed for this course (described in the “Orientation to the Lab” section of the Lab Manual)
	Read in the Lab Manual about how lab exams are conducted
Begin work on Lab 1
	




Advice, Hints and Cautions


Attend the lectures; we will make important announcements and often cover material that isn’t directly in the textbook. You may audio tape lecture, provided only you, yourself, use it and only to study for this course.
Keep up with the reading; you’ll need the information it provides to do your assignments and exams, and the quarter system goes so fast that a few missed pages can quickly become a few chapters if you’re not careful. But don’t try to memorize everything the first time you read it through. A good strategy is to read for the broad ideas before lecture, listen to lecture carefully, and then refer back to the text for reference as needed.
Start  working with your partner on the lab assignments early on; computer work always takes longer to complete than you think it will, even if you have previous experience. All lab assignments are in the Lab Manual; to keep from getting behind, start each no later than the date given for it in the Course Schedule.
Let us know if one of your scores is wrong or missing. If you do not see your score for an assignment, exam or evaluation you turned in when we post its scores, contact me; I'll work with you to determine what has happened. Often, a missing score means you did not turn in your work properly. If we can find the item, we'll score it; if we cannot, you'll need to contact me to determine what can be done.



Announcements

During the quarter, important  announcements will be made in lecture; those of particular importance will also be posted to the Announcements Board; check it often! 



Setting Up Java at Home

Some students like to do their Java programming outside of the Help Center. That’s fine, as long as it is in addition to—not instead of—working with your partner in the Help Center; as discussed in the Course Reference and Lab Manual, pair programming is a required part of this course. For guidance on installing Java on a home computer, see  the primer Setting Up Java at Home. Note that we do not have the resources to support your home installation; you’re on your own for working out problems or difficulties you encounter (except that, during my office hours, I’ll help you as I can with these issues, provided no one is waiting to discuss course-related matters).


Sample Exam Questions

A set of questions in the form of the midterm and final exams, called  Sample Exam Questions, is available to provide you some guidance on what to expect on this term’s midterm and final. Do note, though, that these tests may contain questions on topics that will not be on the exam you take, and there may well be questions on your exams covering topics not on these tests. (We’ll discuss details of the midterm and final in lecture as they draw near.)


Course Grades

At the end of the quarter, course grades will be posted at ICS 45J Course Grades, along with notes about how they were computed at A Note on Course Grade Computation.



Questions

If you have general questions about the course, or questions about or problems with this web site, send email to the instructor.



