http://www.ics.uci.edu/%7Ejacobson/ics10A/ICS10A.html





ICS10A Spring 2006





ICS10A Spring 2006
Information: Presentation and Representation
Course Web Page




Quick Links


Announcements

Course Reference
Course Schedule

Enrollment Information

Lab Manual

Midterm Exam Study Sheet
Final Exam Study Sheet

ICS10A Course Grades
A Note on Course Grades






Course Information


For a detailed introduction to the course, read the Course Reference.
For a schedule of lectures, associated readings and course exams, see the  Course Schedule.
If you want to add or drop the course, or change your grade option or your lab section, read the  Enrollment Information page to learn what to do.

 The Course Reference, Course Schedule and Enrollment Information documents are passed out at the first lecture. If you did not get a printed copy there, you can ask the instructor for one. (You can also, of course, print them out yourself!) You are responsible for knowing the information in these documents and those they reference.


Announcements

During the quarter, important  announcements will be made in lecture and will also be posted to the Announcements Board; check it often! 


Lab Materials

You will need the Lab Manual! It contains lab policies and procedures and the details about  lab assignments.
Some students like to do their lab work outside of lab. That’s fine, but we do recommend that you do work elsewhere in addition to—not instead of—working in lab; as dicussed in the Course Reference, working in lab is typically a major contributer to doing well in the course.  Do note that we do not have the resources to support your home installation; you’re on your own for working out any problems or difficulties you encounter.


Course Grades

At the end of the quarter, course grades will be posted at ICS10A Course Grades, along with notes about how they were computed at A Note on Course Grades.


Questions

If you have general questions about the course, send email to the course staff; if you have questions about scoring of a lab exam, send email to your TA;  if you have others questions about the course, or questions or problems with this web site, send email to the instructor.



