https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1286



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



February 1,  2018


Global Game Jam 2018 Expands Reach


Global Game Jam (GGJ) celebrated its 10th anniversary with triple-digit success in terms of its global reach, with 109 countries participating in the 48-hour gaming event, up from 95 in 2017. Over the weekend, 42,790 jammers combined creativity and technology at 804 sites to produce 8,575 new games, some which were developed here at UCI. Now in its fourth year, the UCI GGJ site continues to grow as well, attracting approximately 150 people this year, up from 130 last year.


Collaborating with the Community
“The weekend was definitely a success,” says Informatics Professor Theresa Jean Tanenbaum, the site organizer. To ensure the strong turnout, Tanenbaum collaborated with UCI’s Video Game Development Club (VGDC), UCI Illuminations, iThrive Games and the Orange County Chapter of the International Game Development Association (IGDA-OC). The collaboration paid off at 5 p.m. on Friday, Jan. 26, when GGJ revealed it’s 2018 “Transmission” theme and the jammers enthusiastically got to work (see photos here). By Sunday evening, they had developed 27 new games, all open access.

Transmitting Fun and Kindness
A few of those games have a “play now” option that doesn’t require a download, such as “Lost in Transmission,” a puzzle platformer where the player alternates control between two characters to navigate through wreckage and find a way home. This game actually straddles two themes, taking third place in the competition sponsored by iThrive Games. The company, which aims to foster “teen thriving” through gameplay, awarded prizes for the top three games meeting its own “choosing kindness” theme. Coming in second place, “Electroline” has players guide a robot though electric transmissions, and first-place winner “ElecTRIO” is a collaborative game focused on tangled wires working together to end a blackout.

The other two online-accessible games were created in the new “all-ages” site, where kids and their parents can jam together. Ten jammers, age 7 to 13, worked with site organizer Marie Tsaasan, an Informatics Ph.D. student, and UCI alumnus Jaime Brown, to create the two games. The first, “Voyager 1,” involves sending signals to Earth to keep the planet from exploding as alien ships approach. The second is the NashTae Soccer Game, developed by eight-year old Nashford and seven-year old Tae.
Exceeding Expectations
Yet these young jammers weren’t the only GGJ rookies this year. “A lot of our participants had never done a jam like this before, and many had never made games,” says Tanenbaum. Such inexperience didn’t seem to stop anyone from imagining — and realizing — the possibilities.
“My favorite part of the jam is watching people surprise themselves,” says Tanenbaum. “The games that they end up making are almost always better than what they expected, which is really exciting for me as an educator!”
— Shani Murray

Global Game Jam 2018 Expands Reach
< Previous
 Dean Papaefthymiou to Present at UCI Reunion March 2
            
Next >
 UC Irvine academics come to the defense of players after WHO proposes 'gaming disorder' as a thing
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











