http://plrg.ics.uci.edu/fidelius








Fidelius – Programming Languages Research Group





























Search






									Programming Languages Research Group								






Brian Demsky
Students
Publications
Software

Software Verifiers

PSan
Yashme
Jaaru
Satune
C11Tester


Software for Relaxed Memory Models
Irvine Research Java Compiler
Views
Smart Home

Fidelius
IoTCheck
PingPong
Vigilia




Navigation




 







Fidelius:  Securing Smart Home Devices against Compromised Cloud Servers 
This paper presents FIDELIUS—a runtime system for secure cloud-based storage and communication even in the presence of compromised servers. FIDELIUS’s design is tailored for smart home systems that have intermittent Internet access. In particular, it supports local control of smart home devices in the event that communication with the cloud is lost, and provides a consistency model using transactions to mitigate inconsistencies that can arise due to network partitions. We have implemented FIDELIUS, developed a smart home benchmark that uses FIDELIUS, and measured FIDELIUS’s performance and power consumption. Our experiments show that compared to the commercial Particle.io framework, FIDELIUS reduces more than 50% of the data communication time and increases battery life by 2×. Compared to PyORAM, an alternative (ORAM-based) oblivious storage implementation, FIDELIUS has 4-7× faster access times with 25-43× less data transferred. 
Please read our Fidelius poster from here, the short paper from here, and the technical report from here to find out more.
Downloads
Please get the source code and the PDF documentation for Fidelius using Git. After the download process is over, you can find the documentation in the PDF format inside the folder iotcloud.
     git clone git://plrg.eecs.uci.edu/iotcloud.git
See Also
The Fidelius source on Gitweb:
http://plrg.eecs.uci.edu/git/?p=iotcloud.git
Disclaimer
We make no warranties that Fidelius is free of errors. Please read the poster, technical report, and the documentation file so that you understand what the tool is supposed to do.
Contact
Please feel free to contact us for more information. Bug reports are welcome, and we are happy to hear from our users.
Contact Rahmadi Trimananda at rtrimana@uci.edu or Brian Demsky at bdemsky@uci.edu for questions about Fidelius.
Copyright
Copyright © 2020 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Acknowledgments
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation.
Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.











Back to Top 


