http://www.ics.uci.edu/~dillenco/compsci161


CompSci 161 - Design and Analysis of Algorithms - Fall, 2022 (Dillencourt)

CompSci 161 - Design and Analysis of Algorithms - Fall, 2022 (Dillencourt)

This web site is a work in progress.  
Information will be added as it becomes available.


To view the information on this page, either scroll down or
click one of these links:


Class Announcements
Class meetings
Course staff: Instructor, Teaching Assistants, Readers
Sending us email. Please Read this section 
before sending us email.
Ed Discussion question-and-answer forum
Academic dishonesty
Required Textbook
Additional Resources
Grading.  This section has a link to a page with
informations about the tests.
Class  Notes
Homework Assignments. This section has
a link to the homework assignment page, which includes the GradeScope
course code.
Reading Assignments. This section has
a link to the homework assignment page, which includes the GradeScope
course code.
Schedule of deliverables (tests, quizzes,
homework due dates)


Class announcements

 Class announcements will be made on canvas.  
 The most recent ones will appear at the top of the course home page on canvas.
 Please check there frequently.


Class meetings

 Lectures: 9:00-9:50AM MWF PCB 1100 [This is the 
  Parkview Classroom Building]
  
 Midterm Exams will be given during the lecture time, in
         the same classroom as the lectures
     The first lecture will be held on Friday, September 23
     There will be no lecture on the following days:
    
 Friday, November 11 (Veteran's Day Holiday)
       Friday, November 25 (Thanksgiving Holiday)
    

 Discussion sections: [Note that MSTB is the 
         Multipurpose Science & Technology Building]
  
 7-7:50PM Tu Th MSTB 118
     8-8:50PM Tu Th MSTB 118
     If you were expecting to see a  6PM discussion section listed, please 
          read 
 this canvas announcement.
     The first discussion section meetings will be on 
         Tuesday, September 27
     There will be no discussion section on the following days:
    
 Thursday, November 10 
       Thursday, November 24 (Thanksgiving Holiday)
    



Course staff


 Instructor:
  
 Professor Michael Dillencourt
     Email: dillenco at ics dot uci dot edu.  But please note:
    
 Questions of general interest about the course material, the homework,
           and the tests  should be posted to Ed Discussion.
       Regrade requests on the homework and midterm will be handled through
           GradeScope.
       It is much better to use the compsci-161 questions list as discussed
           in the section on email.
    
Office hours: 
    
 My office is DBH 4086.  (To get there, take the elevator
           to the fourth floor and keep taking left turns until you
           come to my office on the right.  If you find yourself on the
           fire escape, you have gone too far.)
       I will hold a regular office hour Wednesday 10:30-11:30 AM.
       I am also available after each lecture.  
           I will stay either in the lecture hall or just outside the exit 
           as long as there are students asking questions.
       One more option: 
           I can usually make myself available in my office on Monday or Friday
           mornings between 10:30 and 11:30.  
           Let me know after class if you want to come
           talk to me in my office, and unless I have something else scheduled
           we can meet there.
           Note that on Mondays and Fridays this is "by appointment" in the
           sense that I may not be in my office if nobody has told me they
           are coming.  On Wednesdays I will be there anyway because it
           is a scheduled office hour.
    

 Teaching Assistant:
  
 Ramtin Afshar
    
 Email: afsharr at uci dot edu.
         But it is better to use the compsci-161 questions list as discussed
         in the section on email.
     Office hours: Will be posted on the home page of the course Canvas 
         space.  
         For now you can find Ramtin's office hours in 
         this
         Ed Discussion post.
    

 Reader:
  
 Maya Lee
    
 Email: mayadl1 at uci dot edu.
         But it is better to use the compsci-161 questions list as discussed
         in the section on email.
    



Sending us email

 Rather than sending email to one of us individually,
      it is much better to send email to the address:
      compsci161-questions at uci dot edu
      This is an alias for the instructor, the TA and the Reader.
      Sending your question here ensures that all of us see your message
      and the response.
      It may also give you better turnaround time.
  Please put the string "CompSci 161 - " in the subject line, followed by 
      something meaningful.  
 
 NOTE:It is very important to put spaces around 161.  
       I have noticed that sometimes my mail server's search function gets 
       confused when there is a word preceding a number with no 
       intervening space.
 
 If you are posting a question of general interest, please post it
      on Ed Discussion instead


Ed Discussion question-and-answer forum

We will be  using the Ed Discussion question-and-answer forum.
Access to the Ed Discussion forum will be made available through the 
class Canvas space.
Although posters can hide their identity from other students,
the instructor and the teaching assistants are able to determine the
identity of posters.
The forum is intended as an open and respectful forum for the exchange
of questions and answers about the class and the course material.
Inappropriate, insulting, or offensive posts will not be tolerated.
Such posts will be deleted, and
may result in the suspension or termination of access to the forum.
In extreme cases, offensive posts may be referred to other University entities
for appropriate disciplinary action.


Academic Dishonesty:

Academic dishonesty (cheating) is a serious offense
in the eyes of the instructor, the instructional assistants,
ICS, and the university.
Incidents of academic dishonesty will usually result in your receiving
a grade of F in the course and not being allowed to drop the course.
Additional consequences may occur at the academic unit or campus level.
Examples of academic dishonesty include, but are not limited to:

 Copying from others during an examination
 Using unauthorized materials during an examination.
 Sharing answers or 
allowing another student to copy off your work during an  examination.
 Tampering with an examination after it has been
corrected,  then returning it for more credit.
 Intentionally disrupting the educational process in any way.

For more complete information about academic honesty policies and
procedures, consult the following resources:


     Academic Honesty Policy for Information & Computer Science.

    UCI Office of Academic Integrity & Student Conduct Manual on Academic
    Integrity for Students.
 
UCI Academic Senate Policy on Academic Integrity.  



Required Textbook

 We will be using the online, web-based version of the textbook 
  
 [GT] Algorithm Design and Applications, 
         by Michael T. Goodrich and Roberto Tamassia, 
         published by Zybooks.
  
 You are required to subscribe to the book if you are
  enrolled in the class.
  The material in the book includes interactive exercises which will count as
  a small portion of your grade.
  Instructions for subscribing can be found here.
   Copies of the book in traditional (non-Zybook) form 
  are available in hard copy from the usual sources,
  and an online PDF is available for free.  


Additional resources

Optional additional reading:

 You may find the following books helpful as well.  
         These are not required, but they may provide useful additional 
         perspective and, in for some topics, more detailed coverage.  
         I have requested that a copy of each of them be placed on reserve 
         in the Science Library:
    
[BvG] Baase and van Gelder,  Computer Algorithms, 
          Addison-Wesley.
      [KT] Kleinberg and Tardos, Algorithm Design, Addison Wesley.
      [CLRS] Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest, and Stein,
          Introduction to Algorithms, MIT Press.
    


Prerecorded lectures from previous quarters:

Prerecorded lectures from previous quarters can be found on the class 
      canvas page.  Please note the following:
  
 These prerecorded lectures are intended as a supplement 
       to the in-class lectures, not as an alternative to or a substitute
       for attending the in-class lectures.  
   The material covered in the prerecorded lectures will overlap 
       considerably with the in-class lectures,
       but it will not be identical.  There will be topics
       covered in the in-class lectures that are not covered in the prerecorded
       lectures, and you will be responsible for these topics on exams.
   On occasion I may explicitly assign you to watch a specific prerecorded 
       lecture.
       If I do so, you will be responsible for the material covered on 
       that specific prerecorded lecture on exams.  
       Otherwise, you will not be responsible for
       material in the prerecorded lectures that is not coved in the in-class
       lectures.
   I will not fix errors in the prerecorded lectures.  
       Here is a list of known errors.
       If you think you have found an error, let me know, and once I have
       verified it I will add it to the list of known errors.
  



 Grading

 Based on two midterms, a final exam, 
       weekly homework assignments, 
       and assigned readings in the online textbook.
   The individual components will be weighted as follows when
       computing the course grade:
  
 Test score (weighted average on midterms and final exam):  85%.  
    
The test score will be computed as follows:
      
 Midterm 1: 23%
         Midterm 2: 23%
         Final Exam: 54%
      

 Homework assignments:  8%
     Readings in the online textbook:  7%
  

 Midterms and Final: 

 There will be two midterms. 
     The midterms will be given Monday of weeks 5 and 9.
     No make up midterms will be given, no matter how 
        compelling the reason.
        If you miss a midterm for a valid reason that can be documented
        and you notify us via email before the start of the midterm,
        we will assign a score for your missing midterm based on your score
        on the final exam.
     The final exam will be given during finals week, in the
          time period designated by the registrar.
    
Click here for more information about the 
        midterms and the final exam, including exact date/time. 

  
Homework:

 There will be weekly homework assignments.  
        They will generally be due Wednesday evenings.
        The first assignment will be due during week 2.
    Your lowest homework assignment score will be dropped.  
    A consequence of this policy is that if you do not turn in a homework 
   assignment and hence receive a zero on it, 
   that homework score will be dropped.
   This means that failing to turn in one homework assignment will not
   negatively impact your grade as long as you do well on all the other
   homework assignments.
    For a link to the homework assignment page, scroll down or click
        here. 
  
Reading Assignments:

 There will be reading assigments from the online Zybook textbook.
     In each section you are assigned to read, you will need to 
         complete the Participation Activities.
     Generally there will be a reading assignment due one minute before 
         the start of each lecture. 
     You will be deemed to have satisfactorily completed the reading 
         of a particular section if and only if the Zybook log says that 
         you completed all Participation Activities in the section by the
         deadline.  
     For a link to the reading assignment page, scroll down or click
        here. 
 


Class Notes:

 The class notes consist of the slides used in the lectures.
 Other material may be added to the class notes page over the course
of the quarter.
 Access to class notes is restricted to students enrolled in the class.
 Click here to access the class notes.
Authentication information can be found on the class canvas page.


Homework Assignments

 Homework assigment page:
The homework assignments and instructions for submitting the homework
are posted here.


Reading Assignments

 Reading assigment page:
The reading assignments to be completed before each lecture 
are posted here.


 Schedule of deliverables (tests, homework due dates):

Click here.




Last modified: September 30, 2022

