https://www.ics.uci.edu/~rohit/Acknowledgments.htm
         ACKNOWLEDGMENTS     Acknowledgments “Don’t worry,Rohit… If you make it past AMa95, it will be downhill all the way to your PhD!” —Prof. Alain J. Martin, Caltech, 1994 If nothing else, thishefty volume must at least testify to what an incredibly difficult andfrustrating experience junior year Applied Mathematics and Complex Analysis canbe. Of course, the joy of Caltech is knowing that your roommate breezed rightthrough the same course back in freshman year… sigh! Embeddedwithin that irony, however, is the principle that has guided me so well, sofar: surround yourself with people even better than you are. I may be a big guy, but that’s no reason to becomethe ‘big fish’ — that only means it’s time to move on to a bigger pond! Thankfully,I’ve had the opportunity to work with a great many people who are far moretalented, dedicated, and experienced than myself at every step of the way. Iknow I can be quite a handful at times, but many of my mentors have beengenerous enough with their time and trust to permit me to pursue my own paths. Foremostamong them is, not surprisingly, my advisor and committee chair, Dick Taylor.If he weren’t so supportive of all my adventures within the department — fromhelping organize workshops to racking up all those Incompletes! — as well asout in the ‘real world,’ I might not have even gotten up the courage to returnto school and finish my Ph.D. Credit for that decision is also due to DebraRichardson, who as department chair (and later as interim Dean) encouraged myre-entry. Of course,things do change when you go away for a few years (in my case, to start areasonably successful software company). Fellow students come and go (though Iknow a few who ought to be going soon — good luck, Peter and Joe!), and so dothe faculty. David Rosenblum, who was an essential catalyst for my own interestin the area of real-time event notification, had moved on to his own startup,while André van der Hoek had just moved in from Boulder. Working with Andreprovided a fresh new perspective, helping add depth and rigor to some notionsthat were initially pretty far afield from what I thought I had dashed back toIrvine to do: “What I did on my (very long!) summer vacation.” Instead, thisdissertation slowly but surely shifted from a systems thesis — a clever new wayto view event notification as an application-layer routing problem — into amuch more reflective study of software architecture. For this, I owe a uniquedebt to Roy Fielding, whose investigation into Web architecture laid thefoundation for my own. It’s rare to see a dissertation that constitutes a‘sequel’ to an earlier graduate’s work. This should only be read as a testamentto the power of Roy’s idea. I am similarly impressed by the scope and passionof the “REST advocacy” community this gave rise to, including sparring partnerslike Mark Baker. Roy, in turn,was building on work of another of my mentors, Tim Berners-Lee. Tim, and therest of the crew at the nascent World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) — HenrikFrystyk Nielsen, Dan Connolly, Dave Raggett, Sally Khudairi, and many more —were great examples of both individualinitiative and teamwork. It’shard to imagine even attempting to measure one’s own work up against suchbenchmarks as the Web or XML, but they instilled in me the confidence to try. What Iwouldn’t have predicted, though, was that some of W3C’s summer interns wouldeventually lead me to follow them back to UC Irvine, of all places. JimWhitehead, who visited in the summer of 1996, pulled out all the stops toconvince me to join Greg Bolcer and the rest of the HyperWare team here. Even so, Ididn’t cut a straight path back to California. John Klensin, who helped guideme through some of the rockier shoals of standards politics at the IETF,tempted me to come work with Vint Cerf’s Internet Architecture group at MCI. Ifanything, you could even say TimBL’s work was laid over the foundation ofTCP/IP — but it’s even more chilling to assess one’s works against that yardstick! Instead, theday-to-day slog of academic research is a battle won or lost with ones’ buddiesin the trenches, not by the generals in the history books. Consider my debt ofgratitude to Eric Dashofy, for everything from existential critiques of why myresearch should even be funded, to bailing me out of tight spots with theRegistrar while I was living off-campus… 500 miles off-campus! However, theclosest companion of mine through all these years was (and is!) Adam Rifkin.Sure, he happened to be a grad student in some other Southern Californian CS department, but we workedtogether as closely as I could have hoped these past dozen years. I literallywould not be here without him, not just in publication count, but even to havethe courage to actually start a company with just us, Peyman Oreizy, and acrazy idea about Instant Messaging over the Web. …. I supposeit’s always around this point that an author begins to feel overwhelmed byonrushing memories of all one’s colleagues, friends, and loved ones who haveshaped every word of their works. It is, after all, a fact seldom acknowledgedthat the only people who read acknowledgment sections are all the people whorightfully expect to see themselves in it! Please accept my apologies, everyone of you, from the third-grade teacher who taught me to love reading (Mrs. Hafen)to the high-school teachers who taught me to love writing (Kathy Baer and LyndaMitic) to the college buddies who taught me something about love itself (ErniePrabhakar)… each and every one of the FoRKs out there, thank you!! And last, asthey say, but not least, I’d like to thank the muse who actually got me throughwriting this thesis. After five solid years of procrastination, I can’t helpbut notice that I finally started cranking out chapters only after I met thiscertain someone — the lady who I dearly hope will soon my wife, Smruti JayantVidwans!  So, yes,buried here in the fine print, is my true thesis: will you marry me, love? This material is based in part upon work supported by the NationalScience Foundation under Grant #0205724 and the UC Irvine Chancellor'sFellowship.    