http://www.ics.uci.edu/~rohit

Rohit Khare's ICS Home Page




Dr. Rohit Khare

I am a graduate of Prof. Richard N. Taylor's
software research group in the Department of Informatics at UC
Irvine's School of Information and Computer Science. Depending upon
how you count my leave of absence as co-founder of KnowNow with Adam Rifkin, it took me either four
or six years to complete my dissertation, entitled Extending the
REpresentational State Transfer Architectural Style for
Decentralized Systems (also formatted for easier duplex 
printing). It was summarized in a 10-page SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper at ICSE-26
 and an earlier ISR Tech
Report)


Arguably the most important contribution of my research is the answer
to the challenge posed on page xiv: I'm thrilled to be engaged to marry the wonderful
Mme. Smruti Jayant
Vidwans. 

I've recently joined CommerceNet as
Director of a new research lab; some of our team's thoughts are
available on our blog, The Now
Economy; our website for the 
zLab Center for Decentralization; and our Technical
Reports.


Contributions of the Dissertation

Academically, however, the central insight of my work can be
summarized by the injuction “Decentralization ≠
Distribution”, as shown in this summary quad chart. Basically,
distributed systems are about letting multiple parties come to
consensus on a single decision; decentralization requires
permitting independent parties to make their own decisions. 

Of course, permitting disagreement can descend into chaos; the hard
part is managing the risk caused by disagreement. But manage them we
must, since in the long-term, today's consensus-driven, client/server,
central database architectural styles cannot cope with increasing
network latency and the security threat of conflicting agencies. 

The result is a sequel of sorts to Dr. Roy
Fielding's pioneering work on the 
REpresentational State Transfer architectural style
for the World Wide Web. Starting with the ordinary request/response
style of interaction characteristic of today's Web, I attempted to
shift from the classic ‘ACID’ transaction properties to our new
‘BASE’ measures of decentralization (Best-effort
networking, Approximate estimates, Self-centered trust management, and
Efficient encoding) by successively adding new features to REST. The
final result was Asynchronous, Routed REST with Estimates and
decentralized Decision functions (ARRESTED).

Perhaps the most practical stepping-stone along the way, though, was
ARREST: adding publish/subscribe event notification to the Web. In
retrospect, ARREST best described the open-source Mod_PubSub project
that eventually grew into KnowNow. At the time, we called it the Two-Way
Web, because it changed the one-way data flow, one-to-one
topology, and one-shot unreliability of ordinary HTTP interaction.



Selected Articles on Application-Layer Protocols

I was a columnist for for IEEE Internet Computing,
bentitled Seventh Heaven on
application-layer message transfer protocols.  These columns were
about Telnet, FTP, SMTP, a memorial to Jon Postel and (NNTP), Gopher & HTTP, the APPLCORE protocol unification
initiative, the not-invented here risks of the Wireless Application Protocol suite, and
the a pair of columns on Internet-Scale Namespaces: Anatomy of a
URI and  What's in a Name?
Trust, as well as pair on How
<FORM> Functions and Transforming XForms.


Ultimately, this vision comes together as Application-Layer
InterNetworking, an architectural style for integrating
decentralized systems. Its primary avatar is a SOAP Router, as
described in a presentation from the O'Reilly Emerging Technology
Conference, SOAP Routing: The Missing
Link, some corresponding raw notes,
a few slides from ISR asking "Will
Decentralization Drive Event-Based Architectures?", and a
1998 draft written jointly with Adam Rifkin, The
Evolution of Internet-Scale Event Notification Services: Past,
Present, and Future.



Biography

Rohit Khare is the Director
of CommerceNet Labs, which is
investigating decentralized electronic commerce. Prior to that, he
founded KnowNow in 2000 based on
his doctoral research at the Bren School of Information and
Computer Science  at the University of California, Irvine. There,
he studied the development of application-layer Internet protocols and
architectural styles for decentralized systems with Prof. Richard N. Taylor,
for which he won an ACM SIGSOFT
Distinguished Paper Award and has been nominated for the 
ACM
Distinguished Dissertation Award. 

Dr. Khare's participation in Internet standards development with
world-renowned technical teams at MCI's Internet Architecture group
and the World Wide Web Consortium
(W3C) at the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science, where he focused
on security and eCommerce issues, led him to found 4K Associates, a
standards-strategy consultancy, as well as editing the World Wide Web Journal (W3J) for O'Reilly & Associates. Rohit received
his B.S. in Economics and in Engineering and Applied Science with
honors from Caltech in 1995 and his Master's and Ph.D. in Software
Engineering from UC Irvine in 2000 and 2003, respectively. 

His resume (PDF), a full curriculum vitæ and an old overview of his W3C activities are also
available. He is also the RK in FoRK.



 Telephone
 Email
 Postal
 
Cell: +1-650-714-5529 
Office: +1-650-323-6951


khare@alumni.caltech.edu


304 O'Keefe St.
Menlo Park, CA 94025


