https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=2086



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



November 29,  2021


Ph.D. Candidate Emory Edwards Receives Public Impact Distinguished Fellowship



On Nov. 16, 2021, informatics Ph.D. candidate Emory Edwards of UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) received a Public Impact Distinguished Fellowship. “I was overjoyed when I heard the news,” says Edwards, who will receive $12,000 in funding. The fellowship aims to support research that “demonstrates the potential to significantly improve or enrich the lives of people in California and beyond,” and with a focus on representing people with disabilities in technology design, Edwards is already making an impact.

“Emory’s research contributed to the development of an inclusive, accessible image set centering people with disabilities that will be used by internal Google tech designers and shipped on all new Google Chromebook laptops,” says their advisor, Informatics Professor Stacy Branham. “That’s an estimated 40 million laptops that will come for the first time ever with accessible profile images that actually depict disability.”
Edwards says their work has always been grounded in the question of representation. “From personas that depict people with disabilities (like I wrote about in my CHI EA 2020 paper) to actual disabled people in the room with and as technologists, disabilities have been overlooked for a long time,” they say. “This has led to inaccessible mainstream technology being the norm, because disabilities are thought of most often during implementation, if at all.”
So in early 2020, Edwards started a collaboration with Emily Blank and Michael Gilbert of Google. “They wanted, just like I did, to prompt reflection on who is being designed for in most tech companies and to make sure that was as inclusive of a group as possible.”
Professor Stacy Branham’s team of students, led by doctoral candidate Emory Edwards, worked with Google to host a series of workshops to elicit feedback on avatar imagery. Some of the images assessed included (from left) a wheelchair user transporting groceries, a person signing “thank you,” and a person carrying a coffee and their white cane. (Illustrations by Janet Mac & Patrick Dias)
As the research project developed, they started focusing on image descriptions and how people with disabilities could inform such descriptions. So they reached out to people with lived experience. “Speaking to participants with disabilities during the 19 interviews and nine focus groups I ran with my co-authors, Isabel Tuason and Kyle Polster, revealed so many complexities to representing disability that I never would have thought of on my own.” This further led them to ask, “What can be done to make sure that accessibility is considered at every step and level of technology design?”
Edwards is grateful for support from the fellowship. “I felt in awe that this work is being recognized and so thankful to my advisor, my collaborators at Google and my lab mates in INsite lab, and all my participants who were so generous with their thoughts and time.” [INsite is the INclusive Studio for Innovative Technology and Education.]



The funding will help further advance this important work, as Edwards stresses that both the physical and digital worlds are still “hostile” to people with disabilities — from buildings without ramps to poorly worded image captions. “While companies are making the effort to advance their considerations for disabilities, there is still so much more to be done to make sure tech — as a tool, a culture and a part of the world at large — is made for everyone,” they say. “If my work can make even one person with a disability feel included and respected in the process or products of technology development, then I will be happy.”
— Shani Murray

Ph.D. Candidate Emory Edwards Receives Public Impact Distinguished Fellowship
< Previous
 Informatics Ph.D. Student Maria Anderson Coto Receives the Rosalva Gallardo Valencia Graduate Award
            
Next >
 Disney Research Supports Stephan Mandt’s Work on Generative Modeling with $50,000 Gift
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











