https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news.php?id=2116



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



February 23,  2022


Statistics Ph.D. Student Isaac Goldstein Receives La Verne Noyes Fellowship


On Feb. 10, 2022, a La Verne Noyes Fellowship was awarded to third-year statistics Ph.D. student Isaac Goldstein of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS). Named in honor of inventor La Verne Noyes, the fellowship provides a $4,000 stipend to graduate students who demonstrate outstanding academic achievement and are descendants of World War I U.S. Army or Navy veterans.

“I’m very honored to have received the award and grateful to my advisor for assisting in the application process, and my family for tracking down the discharge papers needed to apply,” says Goldstein, who is advised by Professor Vladimir Minin. While three of Goldstein’s great-grandfathers were WWI veterans, the family was able to track down the necessary paperwork for his mother’s grandfather, James Higgins, who served in the U.S. Navy from 1915-1918.
Goldstein’s research focuses on improving methods for modeling the spread of infectious diseases. “I mainly work on improving methods for estimating the effective reproduction number, which is the average number of people a newly infectious person is going to infect,” he explains. “When it is above one, we expect an epidemic to continue growing, and below one we expect the epidemic to die out, so policymakers often look at it when making decisions about public health policies.”
Goldstein was a member of the UCI COVID-19 response modeling team led by Minin in 2020 and 2021, and he is also currently collaborating with Minin and Associate Professor of Nursing Sanghyuk Shin on characterizing drivers of tuberculosis transmission in Botswana. After earning his Ph.D., Goldstein hopes to continue working as a researcher, either in academia or industry.
“I love working with Isaac because he is passionate about both mathematics/statistics and scientific applications,” says Minin. “I am looking forward to working with him on challenging and important statistical and stochastic modeling problems during his dissertation research.”
— Shani Murray

Statistics Ph.D. Student Isaac Goldstein Receives La Verne Noyes Fellowship
< Previous
 UCI team uncovers key brain mechanisms for organizing memories in time
            
Next >
 Alumni Spotlight: J.P. Allen’s Journey from Playing Atari in Saudi Arabia to Appearing on Jeopardy
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











