https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=2056



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



October 18,  2021


Game Design and Interactive Media Program Receives Distinguished Educator Award

The Greater Irvine Chamber celebrated Irvine’s world-class education at the Hilton Irvine on Oct. 13, 2021 at an awards ceremony for its inaugural Distinguished Educators program. The program recognizes exemplary educators as well as outstanding STEAM (science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics) programs, and the Distinguished Educator Award for Technology was presented to UCI’s game design and interactive media (GDIM) undergraduate degree program. Informatics Professor Constance Steinkuehler, the GDIM program chair, accepted the award on behalf of UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS).

Informatics Professor Constance Steinkuehler accepts the Distinguished Educator Award for Technology  with UCI Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor Hal Stern and Bryan Starr, president  and CEO of the Greater Irvine Chamber of Commerce.
“The GDIM faculty are honored to be recognized in this way,” says Steinkuehler. “We’re excited about the new program, our incoming students, the return to campus, and building strong partnership with the incredible game and interactive media companies right here in our local community.”
So how is the GDIM major, only in its first quarter on campus, already an award-winning program?
Although new for fall 2021, with 86 students enrolled in the program, GDIM stems from UCI’s computer game science (CGS) degree — first launched back in 2011. By 2017, College Magazine had named UCI the No. 1 school for gamers. However, a few years later, as the CGS degree entered its second decade on campus, the Department of Informatics decided it was time for an upgrade.
“The game development field is really fast moving,” says Informatics Professor Katie Salen Tekinbaş, a fellow of the Higher Education Video Game Alliance who helped revamp the CGS major. “The field just looks really different today from how it looked when the degree was originally developed.”
The revised and renamed B.S. degree offering prepares students to be the next generation of designers, developers and industry leaders by providing them with the tools and training needed to reshape the field with innovative and inclusive games and other playable media experiences. “The original computer game science program provides students a strong foundation in game programming, and we’ll continue to support this line of course work,” says Steinkuehler, noting the 223 CGS students on campus. “What the new degree does is expand our focus from programming alone to a broader set of key roles in the industry, including game design, games and product management,” she explains. “Students are now supported in developing a strong portfolio of work to quickly land a job and in developing the collaborative professional skills necessary to thrive after being hired.”
To ensure students are industry-ready prior to graduation, the GDIM program is leveraging its location. “The great thing about being in the center of Silicon Beach is that we are surrounded by so many outstanding game companies,” says Steinkuehler. Industry experts are serving as GDIM instructors, as guest lecturers and as project mentors for the capstone course. “Games is a fast-moving field, where engines, platforms and what’s considered state of the art changes every year, so we supplement our faculty expertise with industry professionals to ensure students graduate well prepared to succeed.” 
Another great thing about being at UCI is the university itself. “We’re on a campus that has a strong reputation for inclusive excellence and for supporting its students by ensuring that campus is an equitable and welcoming space,” says Steinkuehler. “You put this high-tech sector degree together with a culture known for inclusive excellence, and what you get is a program that promises to help diversify the games industry pipeline and prepare the next generation of designers for creating interactive media in powerful, playful, responsible ways.” 
— Shani Murray

Game Design and Interactive Media Program Receives Distinguished Educator Award
< Previous
 Student-Founded Startup Streamlines the Internship Hunt
            
Next >
 Professor Sam Malek Receives GAANN Award to Strengthen Cybersecurity
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











