https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1626



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



October 3,  2019


Informatics Ph.D. Student Lucy Pei Receives Zonta Women in Technology Scholarship





Since 1923, Zonta International has been “empowering women through service and advocacy,” providing more than $41.2 million through clubs in 63 countries to expand “access to education, health care, economic opportunities and safe living conditions.” This year, Zonta encouraged women to pursue educational, career and leadership opportunities in technology-related fields by offering the inaugural Women in Technology scholarship. The selection process was based on “outstanding potential in the field,” and Informatics Ph.D. student Lucy Pei was one of the recipients.

“It is a tiered competition,” explains Pei. “I won $1,000 from the Newport Harbor club, and my application was then forwarded to the district-level competition.” Pei is now eligible to win a district scholarship of $2,000, with winners being announced next month.
As a scholarship recipient, Pei attended the Newport Harbor chapter meeting last month to talk about her research into technology for social good. “My research looks critically at how technology intervention is framed as being for social good and how harms and extractions are also distributed alongside benefits for marginalized communities,” she explains. “I hope to work with communities to develop ways to engage openly with the downsides of technological intervention while still ensuring the benefits of technology reach a wider audience.” In particular, Pei is interested in how immigrant and resettled refugee communities adopt digital technologies in the context of community literacy centers.
— Shani Murray

Informatics Ph.D. Student Lucy Pei Receives Zonta Women in Technology Scholarship
< Previous
 Matching Markets @ Simons: Driven by Theory, Driving the Economy
            
Next >
 Ramesh Jain Wins Inaugural IEEE TCMC Impact Award
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











