https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1747



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



April 15,  2020


Informatics Professor Crista Lopes Co-Chairs Task Force on Best Practices for Virtual Conferences



The list of cancelled events amid the current coronavirus pandemic is long, but while some are choosing to postpone rather than cancel, others are going virtual. In trying to help colleagues move conferences online, it quickly became apparent to Informatics Professor Crista Lopes, who has been involved with online conferencing for years, that a set of guidelines was needed to ease the transition.

“In late February, I started being contacted by conference organizers to help them think through alternative online plans,” she says. “I realized this needed a more systematic effort, because thousands of conferences will be affected, and very few people have ever been to a virtual conference.”
So, Lopes approached a close collaborator, Benjamin Pierce of the University of Pennsylvania, who in turn approached a council member of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), Jeanna Matthews of Clarkson University. Working together, they sent a proposal to the ACM, and the ACM then set up a Presidential Task Force on virtual conferences, led by the three researchers. Collaborating with a group of technology experts, including UCI’s Informatics Professors Emeriti Gary Olson and Judy Olson, the task force produced a useful set of guidelines: “Virtual Conferences: A Guide to Best Practices.”
Creating a “How-To” Guide for Online ConferencingThe guide opens with the following scenario, which is being played out daily all over the world:
Our conference organizing committee just decided to switch our physical conference to online. But the conference is supposed to start in three weeks, and none of us have ever even been to a virtual conference, much less put one on! Where do we start???
This pressing need of countless conference organizers served as motivation for quickly pulling together the necessary information. “We set a very aggressive timeline for delivery,” says Lopes. “The energy around the creation of this guide was a prime example of how good things happen when institutions and people, driven by a sense of urgency, come together toward a common goal.”
Building on a blog post Lopes wrote in March, and borrowing from a list of resources she and Pierce had compiled, members of the task force added to the content according to their expertise and experiences. “The members of the task force, including ACM officers, were amazing,” says Lopes. “Additionally, we all reached out to other people who we knew could offer good advice, too, and they were also amazing!”
The result is a well-organized set of best practices and immediately implementable options for conference organizers who have been left scrambling in the wake of COVID-19. “Conferences are events that bring people together over topics that matter to them; they play an important role in building and maintaining scientific communities, and in disseminating work,” explains Lopes. “Virtual conferences, at least this year, will keep the conversations going.”
Encouraging People to Embrace this New NormLopes hopes people take this experience and embrace virtual conferences as part of the new normal. While she acknowledges the significance of physical meetings, she wants people to rethink their purpose and frequency.
“Everyone knows about the benefits of conferences, but they have a very high carbon footprint and therefore are seriously unsustainable,” she explains. This is something many have pointed out, including Lopes and her colleagues (see “Conferences in an Era of Expensive Carbon” in Communications of the ACM).
“COVID-19 is a strange and unfortunate turn of events, but it’s time people really wake up to what climate scientists have been warning us about,” she says. “We must flatten the other curve, too, the Earth’s temperature; there is no vaccine for that.”
— Shani Murray

Informatics Professor Crista Lopes Co-Chairs Task Force on Best Practices for Virtual Conferences
< Previous
 NSF Announces 2020 Graduate Research Fellows
            
Next >
 Raising Good Gamers: Katie Salen-Tekinbaş Tackles Online Toxicity with New Initiative
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











