https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=2044



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



September 22,  2021


UCI NewsUCI informatics professors relaunch center on computer games, learning and society
Research to focus on interactive media in politically tumultuous, post-pandemic time

Constance Steinkuehler and Kurt Squire, UCI professors of informatics, have joined forces to relaunch their Games + Learning + Society laboratory, citing pressing issues in American culture that could be alleviated through better game design, as well as UCI’s unique place in Southern California’s interactive media ecosystem. Steven Zylius / UCI
The intersection of computer games, education and social activism is to be the focal point of a joint center being newly relaunched this fall at the University of California, Irvine by interactive media research and development experts Kurt Squire and Constance Steinkuehler.
The two professors in UCI’s Department of Informatics founded Games + Learning + Society in 2005 while at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Now they have reimagined it to explore game development and research in a new context dominated by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, political upheaval and change in the United States and abroad, and reignited movements supporting racial justice and women’s rights.

In addition, GLS has been redesigned to allow students to take full advantage of UCI’s unique position in Southern California’s computer gaming ecosystem, according to Squire.
“UCI is in the heart of ‘Silicon Beach,’ which means students here have ready access to a host of game developers headquartered in Irvine and other close-by cities,” he said. “Our people get to meet, collaborate with and learn from developers at Blizzard, Activision and other firms both on the UCI campus and at the companies’ facilities – something that’s just not possible to this extent outside this region.”
Squire said another advantage for students in the center is the existing curriculum for UCI’s B.S. in game design & interactive media. Started in 2009, it’s the first such degree offered by a major public university.
“A lot of other programs need to outsource to freelancers to develop game technologies, websites, apps and other properties, but we have those talents in-house here at UCI,” Squire said. “Having these capabilities here at our disposal is a plus over other institutions and means we can focus on letting students harness their creativity to build projects.”
He added that ranking agencies look at how well programs train students for the relevant job market, and UCI excels because graduates gain the experience of working on a game that has been made available to the public by the time they finish.
The main thrusts of GLS, according to Steinkuehler, will be to use digital communities and interactive media to help promote civic engagement, democratic principles, and equity and inclusion. Researchers in the center will explore what fuels online extremism, disinformation, toxicity and harassment and work to combat it. Other projects will help build an understanding of the impact of games in commercial and educational spheres and how to design titles that positively affect learning, health and wellness, and social change.
Steinkuehler said the relaunch of the center stems in part from calls she has heard by others in the games research and development world.
“The sense I get from our community is that people are leaving the pandemic having discovered what matters most to them and what might not matter as much,” she said. “People are really committed to working on national problems, using games as a lens and as a means to address these issues.”
Steinkuehler said people can expect a very different GLS moving forward.
“There is going to be a lot more focus on students as game designers and on games as a craft,” she said. “In the past, the focus was really on the learning part, but now there’s going to be as much, if not more, emphasis on the games and society parts.”
Steinkuehler noted that the game development industry suffered bad publicity more than a decade ago around the issue of violence in video games. That problem has diminished over time, she said, largely because academic researchers were able to put games in a broader spectrum of reasons for societal discord, not the sole cause.
“The main concern now is the incredible sexism in the game development industry – how that impacts its own employees and how it’s reflected in the games they produce and release to the public,” she said. “As a center, we’re interested in solutions and in thinking about what we can do as a community to build trust and tamp down hateful talk and behaviors. GLS will work on design solutions to address these issues.”
Squire said that part of what inspired the relaunching of GLS is what has been happening at UCI over the past five years.
“UCI presents such a great opportunity because it’s a campus that’s really engaged with games – everything from our groundbreaking esports program to our enthusiastic student body,” he said. “On top of that, UCI is really good around issues of diversity and inclusivity. If you put these two together, you come out with a great foundation for a research lab like ours.”
In addition to relaunching GLS, Steinkuehler and Squire have announced that the next GLS Conference will be held on the UCI campus June 15-17, 2022. The event will bring together academic researchers, industry representatives, game designers and developers, government officials, and leaders at nonprofit organizations who are working on national problems or social issues and want to understand games as a vehicle for ameliorating those problems or addressing them in some way. Steinkuehler said the event will be planned and executed entirely by UCI graduate students and interns.
Originally posted at UCI News.

UCI informatics professors relaunch center on computer games, learning and society
< Previous
 UCI’s Stacy Branham highlighted on Popular Science Brilliant 10 list
            
Next >
 Adriana Meza Soria Receives Latino Excellence and Achievement Award for Graduate Student Excellence
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











