https://www.ics.uci.edu/employment/employ_distinguished.php



endowed bren chairs @ the bren school of information and computer sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Employment


Endowed Bren Chairs

The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at University of California, Irvine (UCI) is seeking outstanding scholars for multiple endowed Donald Bren Professorships in the broad area of computing, including cross-disciplinary research integrating information, statistical methods and application, and computation with other disciplines. Appointments will be at the rank of full professor and are anticipated to begin July 2022 or later.  Scholars doing cross-disciplinary research may be jointly appointed with another school at UCI.
Endowed chair holders are expected to serve as catalysts on campus to establish educational and research programs that foster a collaborative perspective. Accordingly, candidates should not only have a strong disciplinary background with a distinguished record of scholarly publications and extramural funding, but also a proven track record of innovation, collaboration, and leadership in both education and research.  A successful candidate would be entrepreneurial and enthusiastic in engaging with industry, professional and business communities, and the public.
Application screening will begin immediately upon receipt of curriculum vitae. Electronic applications are required; please refer to the following website.
Completed applications containing a cover letter, curriculum vitae, statements on inclusive excellence activities, teaching, and research, three letters of recommendation, and sample research publications should be uploaded electronically.
One of fifteen academic units at UCI, the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences was elevated to an independent School by the UC Regents in 2002. The School’s mission is to lead innovation in human-centered information and computing technologies, understand their economic and social significance, and develop an educated workforce to further advance technology. With approximately 3,000 undergraduates, 500 masters students, 370 doctoral students, and 100 faculty members across its three Departments (Computer Science, Informatics, Statistics), the School is the largest computing program within the UC system and one of the largest in the nation, providing exceptional opportunities for discovery and learning in all areas of information and computer sciences. Over the next decade it is expected to continue to grow and recruit new faculty every year at all ranks.
UCI is one of the youngest UC campuses, yet consistently ranks among the nation's best public universities. Salary and other compensation (including priority access to on-campus housing) are competitive with the nation's finest universities.  UCI is an equal opportunity employer committed to excellence through diversity and strongly encourages applications from women, minorities, and other under-represented groups. UCI is responsive to the needs of dual career couples, is dedicated to work-life balance through an array of family-friendly policies, and is the recipient of an NSF Advance Award for gender equity.
UCI is an equal opportunity employer committed to excellence through diversity and strongly encourages applications from all qualified candidates, including women and minorities. UCI is responsive to the needs of dual career couples, is dedicated to work-life balance through an array of family-friendly policies, and is the recipient of a National Science Foundation ADVANCE award for gender equity.




More employment

Endowed Bren Chairs
Faculty Positions
Lecturer Positions
Research Positions
Student/alumni job board
Staff Positions









Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











