http://www.ics.uci.edu/~qlou









Qi Lou












Home
Research
Publications
Internship
Teaching















Qi Lou 


















                About me
              


              I'm currently an applied scientist at Amazon A9.
              I recently graduated from University of California, Irvine with a PhD in computer science, focusing on the area of artificial intelligence and machine learning.
              My PhD advisor was Prof. Alexander Ihler.
              I also worked closely with Prof. Rina Dechter. The best way to reach me is via email.
            



LinkedIn










                Research
              


              I'm generally interested in artificial intelligence, machine learning, and computer vision.
              My thesis work focuses on developing approximate inference algorithms for probabilistic graphical models
              with strong anytime guarantees, which takes advantage of ideas and techniques from variational methods, heuristic search, and Monte Carlo sampling. I've also worked on (deep) multi-instance learning, video ads analysis, semantic segmentation, etc.
            


Google Scholar











                  Publications
                



                  Interleave variational optimization with Monte Carlo sampling: a tale of two approximate inference paradigms
                


Qi Lou, Rina Dechter, Alexander Ihler
              

The 33rd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-19).









                    Sequential embedding induced text clustering, a non-parametric Bayesian approach
                


                Tiehang Duan, Qi Lou, Sargur Srihari, Xiaohui Xie
              

The 23rd Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (PAKDD-19).







                  Content-based effectiveness prediction of video advertisements
                


Qi Lou, Somdeb Sarkhel, Saayan Mitra, Viswanathan Swaminathan
              

The 20th IEEE International Symposium on Multimedia (ISM-18). [short paper].
              







              Finite-sample bounds for marginal MAP
            


Qi Lou, Rina Dechter, Alexander Ihler
          

The 34th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI-18).








              Anytime anyspace AND/OR best-first search for bounding marginal MAP
            


Qi Lou, Rina Dechter, Alexander Ihler
          

The 32nd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-18). 









                Dynamic importance sampling for anytime bounds of the partition function
              



Qi Lou, Rina Dechter, Alexander Ihler
          

The 31st Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS-17).











                Anytime anyspace AND/OR search for bounding the partition function
              



Qi Lou, Rina Dechter, Alexander Ihler
          

The 31st AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-17).










              Deep multi-instance networks with sparse label assignment for whole mammogram classification


              Wentao Zhu, Qi Lou, Yeeleng Scott Vang, Xiaohui Xie
            

The 20th International Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer Assisted Intervention (MICCAI-17).











Novelty detection under multi-instance multi-label framework


Qi Lou, Raviv Raich, Forrest Briggs, Xiaoli Fern
            

IEEE International Workshop on Machine Learning for Signal Processing, 2013. 











                Instance annotation for multi-instance multi-label learning
              


              Forrest Briggs, Xiaoli Fern, Raviv Raich, Qi Lou

ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data, Vol. 7 Iss. 3, 2013.











                A framework for analyzing bioacoustics audio recordings as multiple instance multiple label data
              


              Raviv Raich, Forrest Briggs, Qi Lou, Xiaoli Fern, David Mellinger
            

Proceedings of Meetings on Acoustics Vol. 19 Iss. 1, 2013.












                Curve intersection using hybrid clipping
              


Qi Lou, Ligang Liu
            

Computers & Graphics 36(5): 309-320 (2012).
Oral presentation at Shape Modeling International 2012.












                  Internship
                


                Research Intern at Adobe Research
                


                    Big Data Experience Lab, hosted by Dr. Somdeb Sarkhel, Dr. Saayan Mitra,
                and Dr. Vishy Swaminathan. 06/2017 ~ 09/2017.
              

                Research Intern at Virginia Tech
              

                    Machine Learning & Perception Group, hosted by Prof. Dhruv Batra. 08/2013 ~ 11/2013,
                04/2014 ~ 08/2014.
              











                        Teaching
                      


                      Teaching assistant for
                    

                           CS 171 Intro to Artificial Intelligence 
                           CS 178 Machine Learning and Data Mining 
                           CS 179 Intro to Graphical Models
                    








 © 2015 Qi Lou · Last Updated on: 06/20/2018 










