http://sli.ics.uci.edu/Classes/2008CSE



SLI | Classes / CS/E Senior Design, 2008-2009 


 












(?)





Classes
Group
Research
Publications
Code






login




Classes /
CS/E Senior Design, 2008-2009





CS/E 181 ABC is a three-course sequence that comprises the Computer Science and Engineering Senior Design Project.  For more information on logistics, et cetera,
please see the official course webpage:
Fall, Winter
See also the design document specification (for 181A):
design documentation outline
Looking for ideas?  A few project suggestions.
Resources for students, including DIY sites, design software, parts and suppliers, and fabrication




My groups

 
 
Multi-touch display and games
Peter Anargirou, Gemma Francisco, Casey Kubo, Corey Kubo A large table display and infrared-based multi-touch interface, along with several games. (You can see the IR leds as purple in the photo.)[ Group blog ]


 
Heli-world
Max Nanasy, Chuck Edwall, Sean Kocol, Hieu Le A helicopter robot.  The group interfaced a mote sensor to a remote control helicopter and inertial measurement unit.  The helicopter could respond to positioning changes (tilting), or be controlled through the mote's radio communications. [ Group blog ]


 
Innovative Spotlight 
Melvin Asuncion, Nihar Desai, Vamshi Mannam, Brian Solloway A spotlight control system.  The project uses infrared transmitters to track the
position of objects on stage, used an IR camera to sense their position and 
track their position with two spotlights.[ Group blog ]





Other CS/E groups

 
 
Turtle (The Unmanned Robotic Terra Land Explorer)
David Nguyen, Richard Ali, Robert Woo, Tana OuitavonMentor: Prof. Ian Harris


 
Optical Wireless Communication
Aaron Peschel, Alonzo Garcia, Nathan Goldstick, Per Sjoman, Akufayerem NwedeMentor: Prof. Eli Bozorgzadeh


 
 
Project Kraken
Ryan Jenkins, Ilya Sukharnikov, William Chang, Victor Rkha, Adrian TranMentor: Prof. Steve Jenks


 
 
Hydrotainment
Jason Au, Jonathan Mood, Victor Tran, Shuai TsengMentor: Prof. Eli Bozorgzadeh


(Several others not pictured; see this list.)







 Last modified November 02, 2009, at 08:42 PM

Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine





