http://www.stat.uci.edu/faculty-directory/koko-gulesserian




Koko Gulesserian 







































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
 










Koko Gulesserian 



Epidemiological ApplicationsThe interests of Lecturer Koko Gulesserian lie at the intersection of statistical analysis and epidemiological applications. “As populations grow, the need to understand the effects of pollution from human-made sources becomes more important,” he says. “My main areas of concentration are survival analysis, methods for longitudinal data, and matched case-control studies.”Effects of Human-Made PollutionGulesserian is currently working on a study to assess the effects of human-made pollution via motor vehicles on the respiratory health of children. “The goal is to see how motor vehicle pollution is exacerbating asthma episode rates among children under the age of 12,” he says. “The challenges posed in these types of study is the absence of a randomized experiment setting.”Policy ImpactGiven that nearly all pollution studies are observational, Gulesserian says that the goal is to get the most amount of inference out of such types of data where experiments are nonethical or nonfeasible. “As the world becomes more automated and motorized, we need to know at what cost — how is this affecting our personal health and well-being?” he asks. “The hope is that what is learned from these studies will help put policies in place that will create an environment in which health and sustainability are prioritized.”











 




“As populations grow, the need to understand the effects of pollution from human-made sources becomes more important.”Lecturer, UCI Department of Statistics sgulesse@uci.eduDBH 2056LinkedIn page











 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy


















