https://sli.ics.uci.edu/PmWiki/DesignNotes



SLI | PmWiki / DesignNotes 


 












(?)





Classes
Group
Research
Publications
Code






login




PmWiki /
DesignNotes





< PmWiki philosophy | Documentation Index | Release notes >



Here are some of the features and notes about PmWiki's design decisions.  
Many of these derive directly from the PmWiki Philosophy and lots of discussion on the mailing lists.

PmWiki:Flat File Advantages - why PmWiki uses flat files to store pages instead of an SQL database
PmWiki:Hierarchical Groups - why PmWiki doesn't support nested groups
PmWiki:Page Locking - how PmWiki works without locking pages (see also simultaneous edits)
PmWiki:Page File Format - the format of PmWiki's page files
PmWiki:Search Improvements - why PmWiki has a native search engine
PmWiki:File Permissions - some information about PmWiki's file permission settings
PmWiki:Wiki Group Motivation - why WikiGroups
PmWiki:WYSIWYG - why not WYSIWYG.
 
 Why doesn't PmWiki  use hierarchical / nested groups?
 It essentially comes down to figuring out how to handle 
page links between nested groups; if someone can figure out 
an obvious, intuitive way for authors to
do that, then nested groups become plausible.  See Design Notes
and PmWiki:Hierarchical Groups.

 Why don't PmWiki's scripts have a closing ?> tag?
 All of PmWiki's scripts now omit the closing ?> tag.  The tag is not
required, and it avoids problems with unnoticed spaces or blank
lines at the end of the file.  Also, some file transfer protocols
may change the newline character(s) in the file, which can also
cause problems.  See also the Instruction separation page in the PHP manual.

 Does PmWiki support WYSIWYG editing (or something like the FCKEditor)?
 Short answer:  PmWiki provides GUI buttons in a toolbar for common markups, but otherwise does not have WYSIWYG editing.  For the reasons why, see PmWiki:WYSIWYG.

Categories: PmWiki Developer



< PmWiki philosophy | Documentation Index | Release notes >




This page may have  a more recent version on pmwiki.org: PmWiki:DesignNotes, and  a talk page: PmWiki:DesignNotes-Talk.






 Last modified March 05, 2012, at 05:32 AM

Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine





