http://www.stat.uci.edu/faculty-directory/zhaoxia-yu




Zhaoxia Yu 







































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
 










Zhaoxia Yu 



Addressing Statistical ChallengesProfessor Zhaoxia Yu is focused on statistical modeling — in particular, statistical genetics, biological imaging and bioinformatics. “My main research interest is methodological development to address statistical challenges, especially when analyzing multivariate and high dimensional data collected in biological, medical, and behavioral studies,” she says. For example, she has studied how to use statistical shape theory to measure relationships of multiple populations.
Collaborating with NeuroscientistsMuch of Professor Yu’s work involves collaborating with neuroscientists at UCI. “I have been working on understanding neural signals from calcium imaging recordings and discovering neurological mechanisms of cognitive behaviors and learning,” she says. The goal of one of these projects is to understand the mechanistic link between the posterior parietal cortex circuit and stress-induced deficits in decision-making.
Leveraging DataProfessor Yu aims to help researchers make appropriate and better use of data and help a general audience understand and interpret statistical results. With her statistical expertise, she has collaborated with local researchers on various interesting problems, such as music trends in the past few decades and genetic impacts on blind dating.











 




“I have been working on understanding neural signals from calcium imaging recordings and discovering neurological mechanisms of cognitive behaviors and learning.”Professor & Vice Chair for Undergraduate Studies, Statistics yu.zhaoxia@uci.edu (949) 824-0491 DBH 2214website











 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy


















