https://sli.ics.uci.edu/Ihler-Photos/Japan-Deva



SLI | Ihler-Photos / Japan-Deva 


 













(?)





Classes
Group
Research
Publications
Code






login




Ihler-Photos /
Japan-Deva


Places to stay
In Kyoto, we stayed at the Hotel Granvia above the train station:
Mini: PHP-GD image library not found. Exiting.
I also highly recommend the nice hibachi place on one of the upper floors; the kobe beef with garlic chips and wasabi is terrific.

Just for interest, here's some photos of a ryokan (traditional inn); they're not all like this, but it'll give you an impression.
Mini: PHP-GD image library not found. Exiting.

While you're in Kyoto, eat some yudofu, incredibly good tofu-based dinner near nanzenji; see e.g. http://www.kyoto.travel/dining/yu_dofu.html
Mini: PHP-GD image library not found. Exiting.
We ate at a place called Okutan, apparently.

Stuff to do in / near Kyoto
Most of these are pretty close to one another, and can be walked between if you have an afternoon free; or just take a bus from the train station to get there directly.
Kiyomizudera, the "Water Temple":
Mini: PHP-GD image library not found. Exiting.
Kinkakuji, the "Golden Pavillion Temple" (actually gold leaf, at least originally; very over the top)
Mini: PHP-GD image library not found. Exiting.
Ginkakuji, the "Silver Pavillion Temple" (not actually silver, but meant to reflect moonlight)
Mini: PHP-GD image library not found. Exiting.
Three famous zen gardens ("dry" rock gardens and moss gardens), Ryoanji, Nanzenji, and Konchiin (next to Najzenji), which have all by now slightly blurred together for me:
Mini: PHP-GD image library not found. Exiting.
Don't forget to eat some yudofu hear nanzenji.
Sanjusangendo, which sports 1001 individual gilded statues of Kannon
Further away (~1-2 hrs by train? = half-day or day trips):
Nara, capital of Japan until maybe 800AD, home to a giant Budda, the worlds-largest wooden building (2/3 size the original, which burned down), and packs of feral attack-deer out for snacks:
Mini: PHP-GD image library not found. Exiting.
Himeji Castle (in Himeji), Japan's largest remaining castle and open for tours:
Mini: PHP-GD image library not found. Exiting.

Near Tokyo
Fish market (~7am)
Kamakura
Nikko






 Last modified September 23, 2009, at 11:04 AM

Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine





