http://www.ics.uci.edu/~smyth/courses/cs175


CS 175 | Fall 2022



 
 
 
 
 





  CS 175: Project in Artificial Intelligence, Fall 2022 

 General Information 

 Lecture Times:  Tuesday and Thursday, 2:00pm to 3:20pm 
 Location:  Social Science Lab, SSL 228

 Instructor: 
Professor Padhraic Smyth, 
   Office Hours: Weeks 1 to 4: Wednesday, 5 to 6pm, on Zoom. For weeks 5 through 10, office hours will be in person during lecture times (2 to 3:20 on Tues/Thurs).
   

 Teaching Assistants:

  Mitra Bezhadi, Office hours: Wednesdays, 2-4pm 
  Markelle Kelly,  Office hours: Thursdays, 11:30am to 1:30pm, in ICS1 458A 

 Discussion Sections:  HICF 100N, Fridays at 2pm and at 3pm 



 Weekly Schedule  

 Lecture Slides:  will be  available online after each lecture  


 Project Resources

  Reference Texts  
  Ideas and Resources for Projects 
  Examples of Datasets for Projects 
  Software  

 Questions?  Use the Ed discussion board   (accessible via Canvas) for all of your questions to the instructor or TA.  Please do not use email. Ed is your first option for asking questions outside of class or office hours. Please also feel free on Ed to answer other students' clarification questions about assignments, to initiate
discussions on project-related topics, etc. 
To communicate directly with only the instructor and/or TA you can send a private message to them within Ed.  



 Course Description  
Students in this project class will work in teams to develop 
artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms with a particular focus on natural language and text analysis. These problems can include, for example, document classification 
and clustering, sentiment analysis, dialog/chatbot systems, information extraction, word prediction, text synthesis, question-answering systems,
and so on. Projects can make use of real-world publicly-available data from sources such as Twitter, Wikipedia, Reddit, news articles, 
product and movie reviews, email data sets, the US patent database, and more. 
Note: this offering of CS 175 will focus on text/natural-language aspects of AI. If you are interested in other topics (e.g., game-playing agents, computer vision, etc) you may want to  take a different offering of this course in Winter or Spring quarter.




Assignments  
 There will be 2 individual assignments in the first 2 weeks of the course and then project reports and updates (by group) after that. Assignments will be posted and submitted via Canvas.




 Grading Policy   A weighted combination of Assignments 1 and 2 (10% each, individual submission),  project proposal (20%, team-based), progress report (20%, team-based), weekly updates (10%, individual submission), in-class presentation (5%, team-based), and final report (25%, team-based).  



 Academic Integrity  
Please read the guidelines on academic integrity below. Academic integrity is taken seriously in this class.  

 Failure to adhere to the policies below can result in a student receiving a failing grade in the class.  

 For individual assignments you are allowed to discuss the assignments verbally (no written communication) with other class members. You are not allowed to look at or to copy anyone else's written solutions or code. 
All problem solutions and code submitted must be material you have personally written during 
this quarter, except for any standard publicly-available library or utility functions. 
  For team projects all the text in your reports  must be written by you or members of your project team. If you wish to quote text from another source you need to clearly indicate this by putting it in within quotation marks or in italic font and providing a citation to the source. 
The code that you use for your class projects will be a combination of code written by you and your team members and publicly-available library code. You should clearly indicate in your reports and in your
code documentation which parts of your code was written by you or your team
and which parts of your code were imported from somewhere else. 
  It is the responsibility of each student to be familiar with 
UCI's Academic Integrity Policies
and
 UCI's definitions and examples of
academic misconduct.


