https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/sadeem-alsudais-shengquan-ni-drove-tracking-execution-results-of-workflows-on-large-data






Sadeem Alsudais: Drove: Tracking Execution Results of Workflows on Large Data – Information Systems Group






























































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Sadeem Alsudais: Drove: Tracking Execution Results of Workflows on Large Data

October 7 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 





« ISG talks: Welcome Back
Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo »









Abstract:

Data analytics using workflows is an iterative process, in which an analyst makes many iterations of changes, such as additions, deletions, and alterations of operators and their links. In many cases, the analyst wants to compare these workflow versions and their execution results to help decide the next iteration of changes. To this end, we introduce Drove, a framework that manages the end-to-end lifecycle of constructing, refining, and executing workflows on large data sets and provides a dashboard to monitor these execution results. In many cases, the result of an execution is equivalent to a prior one. Identifying such equivalence between the execution results of different workflow versions is important to find reuse opportunities. In Drove, we reason the semantic equivalence of the workflow versions to reuse previously-stored results by leveraging existing Equivalence Verifiers (EV). In this talk, I will discuss a novel technique called a “covering window,” which covers the edits between workflow versions to reason their effect on the results. This technique can be applied not only to find final result reuse opportunities but also to find intermediate ones. Finally, I will demonstrate in this talk a prototype of Drove’s dashboard in Texera.

Bio:

Sadeem Alsudais is a Ph.D. student in the Computer Science department at UC Irvine. She received her M.Sc. in Software Engineering from USC and B.Sc. in Information Technology from King Saud University. Her research interests lie in the fields of Big Data processing and visualization. She is a recipient of the KSU scholarship award 2018.

 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 October 7 

 Time: 


					12:30 pm - 2:00 pm				

Event Tags:Talk



 Venue 

 DBH 4011 




 





« ISG talks: Welcome Back
Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close










































