https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/anand-deshpahde-persistent-technologies-how-to-build-your-own-business






Anand Deshpahde (Persistent Technologies): How to build your own Business – Information Systems Group































































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Anand Deshpahde (Persistent Technologies): How to build your own Business

July 27 @ 11:00 am - 12:30 pm 





« Jayant Haritsa (IISc Bangalore): Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries
ISG talks: Welcome Back »









How to build your own Business
location:
Donald Bren Hall 3011
Zoom info: the meeting will be hybrid and will also be available on zoom
https://uci.zoom.us/j/96160303043
Skype for Business
https://uci.zoom.us/skype/96160303043
 
Speaker: Anand Deshpande
Founder, Chairman and Managing Director, Persistent Technologies
Host: Prof. Sharad Mehrotra
Abstract: In this talk Dr. Deshpande will provide insight into entrepreneurship based on his experience with Persistent Technologies highlighting what goes into starting a successful business from idea conception to a publicly traded company. He will also discuss the ongoing focus of the IT industry in India as it rapidly transforms itself into a modern economy.
Bio:
Dr. Anand Deshpande is the Founder, Chairman, and Managing Director of Persistent Systems since inception and is responsible for the overall leadership of the Company. Anand holds a Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech.) with Honours (Hons.) in Computer Science and Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, USA. He has been recognized by both his alma maters — as a Distinguished Alumnus in 2012 by IIT Kharagpur and by the School of Informatics of Indiana University with the Career Achievement Award in 2007.
Anand is a true technology visionary and has been the driving force in growing Persistent Systems from its inception in 1990 to the publicly traded global Company of today. Prior to founding Persistent Systems, Anand began his professional career at Hewlett-Packard Laboratories in Palo Alto, California, where he worked as a Member of Technical Staff from May 1989 to October 1990. He is a founding trustee of Persistent Foundation and has served numerous positions at various professional and non-profit organizations — NASSCOM’s Executive Council, founding President of Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) India, Software Exporters’ Association of Pune (SEAP), Pune Chapter of Computer Society of India (CSI), CII’s Pune Zonal Council, Trustee in the Computer History Museum, founding member of Indian Software Products Industry Round Table (iSPIRT), founding member of I4C, a member of the Dean’s Advisory Council in the School of Informatics, Computing and Engineering of Indiana University.
After transitioning from the role of CEO at Persistent, Anand is committed to making a broader impact and is focused on data, higher education, and entrepreneurship.He is a part-time member of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), trustee of the VLDB Foundation, and is actively working on projects to create a data platform for Indian patients suffering from cancer and diabetes. He is an honorary Adjunct Professor of Practice at the Desai Sethi School of Entrepreneurship at IIT Bombay, Chairman of the Board of Governors of IIT Patna and the interim Chairman of the Board of Governors at IIIT Allahabad. In addition, he is on the governing board of the College of Engineering, Pune and on the board of Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics, Pune.
With his family members, Anand has established the DeAsra Foundation. This non-profit entity focuses on creating self-employment at scale and through the Second Orbit program, in collaboration with Dr. Ashok Korwar, he has helped hundreds of entrepreneurs scale their businesses. Anand is married to Sonali and they have a daughter and a son.
 

Dr. Anand Deshpande, Founder, Chairman and Managing Director at Persistent Systems
 
 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 July 27 

 Time: 


					11:00 am - 12:30 pm				

Event Tags:Talk, talks
 Website: 
 https://uci.zoom.us/j/96160303043 



 Venue 

 Hybrid: DBH3011 & Zoom 



 





« Jayant Haritsa (IISc Bangalore): Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries
ISG talks: Welcome Back »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close











































