https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/jayant-haritsa-iisc-bangalore-shedding-light-on-opaque-database-queries






Jayant Haritsa (IISc Bangalore): Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries – Information Systems Group































































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Jayant Haritsa (IISc Bangalore): Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

June 6 @ 12:00 pm - 1:30 pm 





« Matt Ingenthron (Couchbase): Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing
Anand Deshpahde (Persistent Technologies): How to build your own Business »









Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries
location:
Donald Bren Hall 3011
Speaker:  Jayant Haritsa
                 Database Systems Lab
                 Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore
Abstract: We have recently defined a new query reverse-engineering problem of unmasking SQL queries hidden within opaque database applications. The diverse industrial use-cases for this problem range from resurrecting legacy code to query rewriting.  It poses hard and novel intellectual challenges due to the presence of a variety of complexities such as dependencies between the query clauses, schematic renaming in the output attributes, result consolidation due to aggregates, and presence of computed column functions.
In this talk, we motivate the hidden query extraction problem, and then present UNMASQUE, an extraction algorithm based on an active learning approach, that successfully exposes a complex class of hidden warehouse queries. A special feature of its design is that the extraction is completely non-invasive with respect to the application, examining only the results obtained from repeated executions on databases derived with a combination of data mutation and data generation techniques. Further, potent optimizations are incorporated to minimize the extraction overheads. A detailed evaluation over applications hosting hidden SQL queries, or their imperative versions, demonstrates that UNMASQUE correctly and efficiently extracts these queries.
While the above represents a first step in query extraction, a suite of open research problems that remain to be solved will be covered at the end of the talk.
Bio: Jayant Haritsa is on the computer science faculty at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, since 1993. He received a BTech degree from the Indian Institute of Technology (Madras), and MS and PhD degrees from the University of Wisconsin (Madison).  He is a Fellow of ACM and IEEE, and currently the President of ACM India.

 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 June 6 

 Time: 


					12:00 pm - 1:30 pm				

Event Tags:Talk



 Venue 

 DBH 3011 




 





« Matt Ingenthron (Couchbase): Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing
Anand Deshpahde (Persistent Technologies): How to build your own Business »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close











































