https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/nandit-soparkar-ubiquiti-data-driven-ai-technologies-for-a-consumer-webapp






Nandit Soparkar (Ubiquiti): Data-driven AI technologies for a Consumer webapp – Information Systems Group































































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Nandit Soparkar (Ubiquiti): Data-driven AI technologies for a Consumer webapp

March 11 @ 3:00 pm - 5:00 pm 





« Yannis Chronis (University of Wisconsin-Madison): Analytic Query Processing using Associative Computing
Tim Kraska (MIT): Towards instance-optimized data systems »









Title:  Data-driven AI technologies for a Consumer webapp
 
Abstract: We discuss the challenges, and the opportunity, in providing a consumer-facing data-driven AI webapp. Our presentation will include a demo, make available access to the audience, and cover the technical as also relevant business challenges being addressed. Our webapp is the new CarBeast.com (about 2 months since launch) which uses well-established technologies, and the experienced team, from Ubiquiti.com (about 2 decades since launch). Our technical considerations will cover both, the data & software challenges, and our business considerations will cover both, the marketing & sales challenges. Attendees will get to try CarBeast for free!


 Speaker Bio-sketch:  Nandit Soparkar leads business and technical development at Ubiquiti. Previously, he was a tenure-track professor in the College of Engineering at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Many of his former students now hold senior faculty, research and industry positions, and he also advises small & large software and other technical companies. His research focused on time-constrained concurrent computing, data mining & analysis technology, and logic-enhanced memory for data-intensive computing. He has worked at the AT&T Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, NJ, and at the IBM TJ Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights NY. He has published books and research papers, holds multiple pending & issued patents, and done peer-reviewed research in several fields. He holds a B.Tech in Computer Science & Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, as well as M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from the University of Texas at Austin.



Related Links:

www.CarBeast.com
www.Ubiquiti.com

 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 March 11 

 Time: 


					3:00 pm - 5:00 pm				

Event Tags:Talk
 Website: 
 https://uci.zoom.us/j/98886479081 



 Venue 

 Zoom 




 





« Yannis Chronis (University of Wisconsin-Madison): Analytic Query Processing using Associative Computing
Tim Kraska (MIT): Towards instance-optimized data systems »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close











































