https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/yannis-chronis-university-of-wisconsin-madison-analytic-query-processing-using-associative-computing






Yannis Chronis (University of Wisconsin-Madison): Analytic Query Processing using Associative Computing – Information Systems Group































































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Yannis Chronis (University of Wisconsin-Madison): Analytic Query Processing using Associative Computing

October 25, 2021 @ 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm 





« Jerry Power (I3 Systems): Managing Digital Flows in a Data Driven World
Nandit Soparkar (Ubiquiti): Data-driven AI technologies for a Consumer webapp »









Speaker:
Yannis Chronis (University of Wisconsin-Madison)
Title:
Analytic Query Processing using Associative Computing
Abstract:
We are in the midst of a “Cambrian” hardware evolution in which a variety of architectures are being invented with a flurry that we haven’t seen in a long time. The associative computing paradigm enables designs that utilize memories in new ways and packs storage and computing closely together.  Associative computing processors offer massive data-level parallelism and single-cycle search and update primitives. The focus of our work is on exploring how database analytic workloads can run efficiently on this new computing substrate. Our vehicle for this research is the Castle project in which we are building a data processing engine to run on the CAPE hardware, which is a specific SRAM-based associative processor. To fully exploit CAPE’s potential, we adapt data query processing operators and query optimization methods to leverage the style of data-parallel computing that can be carried out natively inside CAPE. We experiment with both individual query processing operators and end-to-end queries and show that the performance gains using our methods are significant, and up to 128X in some cases. Tentatively, these results point to the exciting potential in accelerating database analytic workloads using associative computing.
Bio:
Yannis is a fifth-year Ph.D. student in the Computer Sciences Department at the University of Wisconsin-Madison advised by Prof. Jignesh Patel. His research focuses on efficient data processing using modern and emerging hardware.
 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 October 25, 2021 

 Time: 


					12:00 pm - 1:00 pm				

 Website: 
 https://uci.zoom.us/j/92273445926 



 Venue 

 DBH 4011 




 





« Jerry Power (I3 Systems): Managing Digital Flows in a Data Driven World
Nandit Soparkar (Ubiquiti): Data-driven AI technologies for a Consumer webapp »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close











































