https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/yugabytedb-bringing-together-the-best-of-amazon-aurora-and-google-spanner






Karthik Ranganathan: YugabyteDB – Bringing Together the Best of Amazon Aurora and Google Spanner – Information Systems Group































































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Karthik Ranganathan: YugabyteDB – Bringing Together the Best of Amazon Aurora and Google Spanner

October 23, 2020 @ 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm 





« Aaron J. Elmore: CrocodileDB – Resource Efficient Database Execution
Yiming Lin (UCI): LOCATER – Cleaning WiFi Connectivity Datasets for Semantic Localization »









Speaker: 

Karthik Ranganathan

Abstract:
PostgreSQL, a single-node open-source RDBMS, is widely adopted for its powerful set of features. However, PostgreSQL is not built to be used as a cloud-native database, and therefore cannot inherently survive failures, scale horizontally or support geo-distributed deployments. While Amazon Aurora has modified the subsystem of PostgreSQL that writes to disk along with simplifying async replication to make the database resilient to failures, it does not address horizontal scalability or geo-distribution. Google Spanner is a distributed SQL database that addresses these features as well, however it does not offer many of the powerful features of PostgreSQL. YugabyteDB, a fully open-source distributed SQL database, aims to combine the best of these in an attempt to build a very compelling, cloud-native database.
 
In this talk, we will look at the architecture of YugabyteDB that enables it to support all PostgreSQL features along with distributed transactions, resilience, scalability, and geo-distribution of data.










Bio:

Karthik was one of the original database engineers at Facebook responsible for building distributed databases including Cassandra and HBase. He is an Apache HBase committer, and also an early contributor to Cassandra, before it was open-sourced by Facebook. He is currently the co-founder and CTO of the company behind YugabyteDB, a fully open-source distributed SQL database for building cloud-native and geo-distributed applications.
Zoom link











https://uci.zoom.us/j/97063664357
 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 October 23, 2020 

 Time: 


					3:00 pm - 4:00 pm				




 





« Aaron J. Elmore: CrocodileDB – Resource Efficient Database Execution
Yiming Lin (UCI): LOCATER – Cleaning WiFi Connectivity Datasets for Semantic Localization »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close











































