https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/crocodiledb-resource-efficient-database-execution






Aaron J. Elmore: CrocodileDB – Resource Efficient Database Execution – Information Systems Group































































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Aaron J. Elmore: CrocodileDB – Resource Efficient Database Execution

October 16, 2020 @ 2:00 pm - 3:00 pm 





« Lei Cao: Toward an End-to-end Anomaly Discovery Paradigm
Karthik Ranganathan: YugabyteDB – Bringing Together the Best of Amazon Aurora and Google Spanner »









Abstract:
The coming end of Moore’s law requires that data systems be more judicious with computation and resources as the growth in data outpaces the availability of computational resources. Current database systems are eager and aggressively consume resources to immediately and quickly complete the task at hand. Intelligently deferring a task to a later point in time can increase result reuse, reduce work that might later be invalidated, or avoid unnecessary work altogether. In this talk I will introduce CrocodileDB, a resource-efficient database system that automatically optimizes deferment based on user-specification and workload prediction. CrocodileDB integrates new ways of specifying timing information, new query execution policies, new task schedulers, and new data loading schemes. In particular, this talk will highlight two new query execution paradigms, Intermittent Query Processing and Incremental-Aware Query Execution.
Zoom link:
https://uci.zoom.us/j/92895672890
Author bio:
Aaron J. Elmore is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science, and the College of the University of Chicago. Aaron was previously a Postdoctoral Associate at MIT. Aaron’s thesis on Elasticity Primitives for Database-as-a-Service was completed at the University of California, Santa Barbara. His recent research interests focus on building data systems that address the growing data deluge. This includes building a resource-efficient database system (CrocodileDB), new compression techniques for databases (DenseStore and EdgeTSD), bringing git-like functionality to Databases (Datahub, Decibel, and OrpheusDB), and data discovery (DataSwamp and Relic). His previous projects included polystores (BigDAWG), elastic databases (E-Store), and database migration (Squall and Zephyr). He is currently an associate editor for SIGMOD record, and has served as co-chair for SIGMOD demonstration track, the inaugural SIGMOD student research competition, and VLDB proceeding editor.
 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 October 16, 2020 

 Time: 


					2:00 pm - 3:00 pm				




 Venue 

 https://uci.zoom.us/j/92895672890 



 





« Lei Cao: Toward an End-to-end Anomaly Discovery Paradigm
Karthik Ranganathan: YugabyteDB – Bringing Together the Best of Amazon Aurora and Google Spanner »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close











































