https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/opportunities-and-perils-of-data-science-a-roadmap-ics-distinguished-lecture






Dr. Alfred Spector(Two Sigma) : Opportunities and Perils of Data Science: A Roadmap (ICS Distinguished Lecture) – Information Systems Group































































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Dr. Alfred Spector(Two Sigma) : Opportunities and Perils of Data Science: A Roadmap (ICS Distinguished Lecture)

February 25, 2020 @ 11:00 am - 12:00 pm 





« Systems and ML at RISELab (CS Distinguished Seminar Series)
Pat Helland (Salesforce.com) : Depending on Appending »









Speaker: Dr. Alfred Spector
Abstract: Data-driven approaches have led to powerful prediction, optimization and automation techniques.  Powered by large-scale, networked computer systems and machine learning algorithms, these have been very impactful to-date and hold great promise in many disciplines, even in the humanities and social sciences. However, no new technology arrives without complications, and we have recently seen the press and various political circles illustrating real, potential, and fictional implications of Big Data.
This presentation aims to balance the opportunities provided by Big Data and its associated artificial intelligence techniques with a discussion of the various challenges that have ensued. I review eleven types of challenges, including those which are technical (resilience and complexity), societal (difficulties in setting objective functions or understanding causation), and humanist (issues relating to free will or privacy). I provide example problems and suggest ways to address some of the unanticipated consequences of Big Data.
Bio: Dr. Alfred Spector is Chief Technology Officer at Two Sigma, a firm dedicated to using information to undertake many forms of economic optimization. His career has led him from innovation in large scale, networked computing systems (as a professor at CMU and founder of his company, Transarc) to broad research leadership: five years leading IBM Software Research and eight years leading Google Research. Recently, Spector has lectured widely on the growing importance of computer science across all disciplines (CS+X) and on the Societal Implications of Data Science. He  received an AB in Applied Mathematics from Harvard and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford, where he was a Hertz Fellow. He is a Fellow of the ACM and IEEE, and a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Dr. Spector won the 2001 IEEE Kanai Award for Distributed Computing, was co-awarded the 2016 ACM Software Systems Award, and was a 2018-19 Phi Beta Kappa Scholar.
 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 February 25, 2020 

 Time: 


					11:00 am - 12:00 pm				




 Venue 

 DBH 6011 




 





« Systems and ML at RISELab (CS Distinguished Seminar Series)
Pat Helland (Salesforce.com) : Depending on Appending »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close











































