https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/event-detection-with-temporal-predicates






Event Detection with Temporal Predicates – Information Systems Group































































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Event Detection with Temporal Predicates

February 7, 2020 @ 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm 





« Building Personal Chronicle of Life Events (Final Defense)
Effective Filters and Linear Time Verification for Tree Similarity Joins »









Speaker: Fabio Persia (Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, Italy)
Abstract: Human perception tends to group individual values into larger structures, this is also the case for time series data. This tendency inspired us to define an event-detection language based on time intervals, which combines timepoint-based events into larger structures. Complex events can then be defined on a more abstract level by specifying temporal relationships between different time intervals. As a result, we propose a system based on an extension of relational algebra (ISEQL, Interval-based Surveillance Event Query Language), enriched with powerful temporal operators and additional constraints, which is able to: (i) extend Allen’s interval relationships; (ii) support overlap percentage and cardinality constraints over the interval relationships; (iii) provide robustness with respect to small variations in the intervals; (iv) be more efficient than state-of-the-art approaches. With the help of intuitive and interactive graphical user interfaces, a user can also have a look at the different layers of our system to gain insights into the inner workings of the system, as well as create new events on the fly and track their processing through the system.
Bio: Fabio Persia is currently (since 2015) a Researcher/Assistant Professor (RTD/A) at the Faculty of Computer Science of the Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, Italy. He received the master’s and PhD degrees in Computer Engineering from the University of Naples “Federico II”, Italy, in 2009 and 2013, respectively, under the supervision of Professors Antonio Picariello and Vincenzo Moscato. During his PhD, he was visiting scholar at the University of Maryland, College Park (USA) for six months, under the supervision of Prof. V.S. Subrahmanian. He was also Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology of the University of Naples “Federico II” from 2013 to 2015. His research interests include the fields of event detection and analysis in large scale databases applied to multimedia, semantic analysis and security, as demonstrated by several papers published in top journals (such as TKDE and TOIT) and conferences (IJCAI, EDBT, CIKM).
 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 February 7, 2020 

 Time: 


					3:00 pm - 4:00 pm				




 Venue 

 DBH 3011 




 





« Building Personal Chronicle of Life Events (Final Defense)
Effective Filters and Linear Time Verification for Tree Similarity Joins »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close











































