https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/amber-a-debuggable-dataflow-system-based-on-theactor-model






Texera: Supporting Big Data Analytics for Domain Experts through GUI-based workflows – Information Systems Group






























































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Texera: Supporting Big Data Analytics for Domain Experts through GUI-based workflows

November 22, 2019 @ 1:00 pm - 2:00 pm 





« Multistage Adaptive Load Balancing in Big Active Data Publish Subscribe Systems
AquaEIS: Middleware Support for Event Identification in CommunityWater Infrastructures »









Speakers:  Avinash Kumar,  Shengquan Ni, Zuozhi Wang
 
Abstract: Big data analytics is a daunting task for domain experts such as doctors and teachers. Their non-IT background makes it challenging for them to write analytics code and maintain computing infrastructures to efficiently process large amounts of data. Existing data analytics frameworks that offer GUI-based alternatives are mostly limited to a single machine. In light of these facts, we are developing Texera, a scalable data-processing system that supports interaction and debugging and is easy to use by non-IT people. One of the challenges of the system is supporting real-time interactions without compromising on scalability. We discuss how we solve the problem in Amber, the backend engine of Texera. Amber, built using the actor model, is a cluster-based distributed engine that can process workflows while supporting interactions. We will show a demonstration of using Texera to analyze social media data.
 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 November 22, 2019 

 Time: 


					1:00 pm - 2:00 pm				




Organizer



				Avinash Kumar,  Shengquan Ni, Zuozhi Wang			





 Venue 

 DBH 3011 



 





« Multistage Adaptive Load Balancing in Big Active Data Publish Subscribe Systems
AquaEIS: Middleware Support for Event Identification in CommunityWater Infrastructures »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close










































