https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/michal-shmueli-scheuer-conversational-bots-for-customer-support






Michal Shmueli-Scheuer : Conversational bots for customer support – Information Systems Group






























































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Michal Shmueli-Scheuer : Conversational bots for customer support

August 9, 2019 @ 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm 





« Pat Helland: There’s No Substitute for Interchangeability
Gift Sinthong: AsterixDB Meets Data Science »









Conversational bots for customer support
Michal Shmueli-Scheuer, IBM Research – Haifa

August 9, 2019, Friday, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, DBH 4011

Abstract:
In this talk, I’ll cover various aspects of conversational bots, focusing on the domain of customer support. Often, human conversations with bots mimic the way humans interact with each other. Moreover, even when customers know that they are interacting with virtual agents (bots), they still expect them to behave like humans. One way to improve interactions with bots is by giving them some human characteristics ,such as emotion and personality. I’ll show how a model of neural response generation can be used to generate bot responses according to a target personality. I’ll then cover a methodology for detecting egregious conversations in a setting using conversational bots by examining behavioral cues from the customer, patterns in the agents’ responses, and customer-agent interactions.
Bio:
Michal Shmueli-Scheuer is a senior researcher in the Language and Retrieval research group (AI Language department) in IBM Research – Haifa, with over 13 years of industry experience. She holds a Ph.D (2009) degree in Information and Computer Science from the University of California, Irvine, USA. Her area of expertise is in the fields of conversational bots, affective computing, user modeling, large scale analytics, database, and information systems, focusing on user behavior analytics and information management on the web. Her current work focuses on computational modeling for users and conversational agents. She has published more than 30 academic papers in leading conferences, and journals, and book chapters. She has served as a PC member and a reviewer of numerous leading conferences and journals.


 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 August 9, 2019 

 Time: 


					3:00 pm - 4:00 pm				




 Venue 

 DBH 4011 



 





« Pat Helland: There’s No Substitute for Interchangeability
Gift Sinthong: AsterixDB Meets Data Science »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close










































