https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/prof-sang-woo-jun-lowering-the-cost-of-large-scale-data-analytics-via-efficient-use-of-flash-storage






Prof. Sang-Woo Jun: Lowering the cost of large-scale data analytics via efficient use of flash storage – Information Systems Group































































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Prof. Sang-Woo Jun: Lowering the cost of large-scale data analytics via efficient use of flash storage

February 8, 2019 @ 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm 





« Prof. Jeff Ullman: Data Science:  Is it Real?
Xiangyao Yu: Transaction Processing at Scale »









In this talk, I present the storage systems aspect of the ongoing work on using relatively cheap solid-state secondary storage to replace expensive DRAM for analytics on large amounts of data, using as examples graph analytics and the bioinformatics application somatic mutation finding.
Both applications are inherently random access intensive, which is a bad fit with the coarse access granularity of secondary storage.
In both cases, performance impact of random access is addressed in two ways: reorganizing the computation and access pattern to remove random access, and modifying the internals of the storage device controller to optimize for random accesses.
In both cases, a desktop-class system with secondary storage was able to match the performance of a system with an order of magnitude higher cost.



Bio:

Sang-Woo Jun is a faculty member at Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. His research focus is on computer architecture and system design for lowering the cost of handling large amounts of data. Before joining UCI, Sang-Woo did his Ph.D with Professor Arvind at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and his B.S. at Seoul National University in Korea. His industry experience includes intern at the Big Data Discovery team at Oracle, and Server/Client developer at Nexon inc.

 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 February 8, 2019 

 Time: 


					3:00 pm - 4:00 pm				




 Venue 

 DBH 3011 




 





« Prof. Jeff Ullman: Data Science:  Is it Real?
Xiangyao Yu: Transaction Processing at Scale »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close











































