https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/speaker-david-lomet-microsoft-research-cost-performance-in-modern-data-stores-how-data-caching-systems-succeed






David Lomet (Microsoft Research): How Data Caching Systems Succeed – Information Systems Group






























































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
David Lomet (Microsoft Research): How Data Caching Systems Succeed

January 25, 2019 @ 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm 





« Vinayak Borkar (FireEye Inc.): The X15 Machine Data Management Platform
Prof. Jeff Ullman: Data Science:  Is it Real? »










Data in traditional “caching” data systems resides on secondary storage, and is read into main memory only when operated on. This limits system performance. Main memory data stores with data always in main memory are much faster. But this performance comes at a cost. In this paper, we analyze the costs of both in-memory operations and secondary storage operations where data is not “in cache”. We study the performance impact of cache misses on caching system performance. The analysis considers both execution and storage costs. Based on our analysis, we derive cost/performance results for a data caching system [Deuteronomy and its Bw-tree] and a main memory system [MassTree] to understand where each demonstrates the best cost per operation, what is driving the cost differences, and the scale of the differences. This analysis (1) provides insight into why data caching systems continue to dominate the market; (2) points to higher performance that does not rely on simply increasing main memory cache size; and (3) suggests a path to lower costs and hence better cost/performance.
 
Speaker Bio:
David Lomet founded the Database Group at Microsoft Research Redmond in 1995 and managed it for 20 years. His research career began at IBM where, while on a 1975-76 sabbatical at the University of Newcastle-on-Tyne, he invented atomic actions (a form of transactions). He later worked at Wang Institute as a faculty member, and at Digital Equipment Corporation as a software architect and research staff member. He received a Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Pennsylvania. Lomet’s primary focus has been the engineering of database systems, with a focus on database system kernels. His work on concurrency control and recovery contributed to making DEC’s Rdb and Microsoft’s SQL Server database management systems leaders in cost/performance. His Deuteronomy research project’s latch-free Bw-tree index and log structure store are key elements in Microsoft’s Hekaton main memory database and Azure Cosmos DB cloud data service. Deuteronomy won the Microsoft Research Redmond “2017 Best Research Project” Award. Lomet is an author of over 120 papers and over 60 patents. Lomet has won IEEE awards as well as the ACM SIGMOD Contributions Award for his 25 year tenure as EIC of the IEEE Data Engineering Bulletin. HE has also served as editor of ACM TODS, VLDB Journal and others, and has been a member of the VLDB Board. He has been a PC co-chair for ICDE and VLDB. He is a member of the IEEE Computer Society Board of Governors and society Secretary, and has been First Vice President and Treasurer. He is a fellow of IEEE, ACM, and AAAS, and a member of the National Academy of Engineering.
 
Download slides for this talk
Watch the video for this talk
 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 January 25, 2019 

 Time: 


					3:00 pm - 4:00 pm				

Event Tags:Talk



 Venue 

 DBH 4011 



 





« Vinayak Borkar (FireEye Inc.): The X15 Machine Data Management Platform
Prof. Jeff Ullman: Data Science:  Is it Real? »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close










































