https://isg.ics.uci.edu/event/vinayak-borkar-fireeye-inc-the-x15-machine-data-management-platform






Vinayak Borkar (FireEye Inc.): The X15 Machine Data Management Platform – Information Systems Group































































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 











ISG Talks are sponsored by Couchbase.
<< All Talks



 « All Events


This event has passed.
Vinayak Borkar (FireEye Inc.): The X15 Machine Data Management Platform

December 7, 2018 @ 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm 





« Dr. Andrey Balmin and Mayank Pradhan (Workday): Workday Prism Analytics: Unifying Interactive and Batch Data Processing Using Apache Spark
David Lomet (Microsoft Research): How Data Caching Systems Succeed »









ABSTRACT: Machine Data (aka Log Data) is continuously produced by applications and devices as a result of human-computer and computer-computer interactions. Although most of this data was initially generated for ad-hoc human consumption to aid with debugging and troubleshooting systems and deployments, their systematic treatment using well-known data processing techniques can unlock valuable insight about operations within organizations. Log Data may sometimes be the only feasible source of some of this insight. Processing Log Data poses new challenges as compared to traditional data management. Firstly, Log Data is mostly textual requiring ad-hoc parsing to surface its meaning. Secondly, Log Data tends to be extremely voluminous and is generated with high velocity posing a unique set of challenges in its acquisition and storage in a cost-effective manner. Lastly, Log Data requires new query languages and techniques to unlock its full potential. X15 is a scalable purpose-built platform to acquire, store, and manage Machine Data. In this talk we will look at X15’s architecture, some of its design decisions and use cases.
BIOS: Vinayak Borkar is Vice President of Engineering at FireEye, Inc. Prior to FireEye’s acquisition of X15, he was a co-founder and the CTO of X15 Software. Prior to X15, Vinayak was the CTO and head of engineering at DVO Software and the inventor and lead contributor of Hyracks, an open-source parallel data processing platform built at UC Irvine. He began his career at BEA Systems, where he led the development of the first XQuery-based data integration platform. Vinayak was the recipient of the Facebook Fellowship award for his contribution in the area of large-scale data management and holds a BS in Computer Science and Engineering from University of Mumbai and an MS in Computer Science and Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, and a PhD. in Information and Computer Science from the University of California at Irvine.
 

+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 December 7, 2018 

 Time: 


					3:00 pm - 4:00 pm				




 Venue 

 DBH 4011 




 





« Dr. Andrey Balmin and Mayank Pradhan (Workday): Workday Prism Analytics: Unifying Interactive and Batch Data Processing Using Apache Spark
David Lomet (Microsoft Research): How Data Caching Systems Succeed »







 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close











































