https://www.cs.uci.edu/tippers-wins-naval-information-warfare-systems-command-navwar-innovation-award




TIPPERS Wins Naval Information Warfare Systems Command (NAVWAR) Innovation Award 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


TIPPERS Wins Naval Information Warfare Systems Command (NAVWAR) Innovation Award
March 11, 2021 
Prioritizing “privacy by design” in a world increasingly interconnected through the Internet of Things (IoT), researchers in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) have created the TIPPERS (Testbed for IoT-based Privacy-Preserving PERvasive Spaces) system. Funded by DARPA through the Brandeis program, TIPPERS is an integrated IoT data management middleware that uses a variety of privacy-enhancing technologies.


“The TIPPERS system is an outcome of a very dedicated team of students and faculty at UCI, and our academic, government and industrial partners over the past five years,” says Computer Science Professor Sharad Mehrotra, who developed TIPPERS along with fellow Computer Science Professor Nalini Venkatasubramanian and a team of ICS researchers.
Recognizing the potential of IoT to enhance military operations, dynamically monitoring soldiers and their environment and greatly improving situational awareness, Mehrotra and his team partnered with researchers at the Naval Information Warfare Center (NIWC) Pacific, including ICS alumnus Mamadou H. Diallo. The collaboration was recently recognized with the 2021 Naval Information Warfare Systems Command (NAVWAR) Innovation Award.
“Our collaboration with NIWC researchers, headed by Dr. Diallo, to transition TIPPERS to the Navy and participate in naval exercises has been a very fruitful and rewarding experience,” says Mehrotra. “It is indeed an honor to see TIPPERS being recognized through the NAVWAR Innovations Award.”

Venkatasubramanian agrees. “The design and deployment of emerging IoT technologies to create privacy-aware smart spaces in the shipboard context, and to design relevant applications for situational awareness that aims to keep personnel safe, was a truly unique experience.”

Diallo, who received his B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. in ICS, is now an NIWC Pacific scientist focused on cybersecurity. “This award signifies the technological innovation of the TIPPERS system and its potential impact in the Navy systems and applications,” he says. “The NIWC Pacific research team recognizes the strong contribution of the DARPA performers on the TIPPERS project led by UCI in supporting the TIPPERS transition to the Navy. This is truly an honor for the UCI and NIWC Pacific research collaboration.”
— Shani Murray
« ICS Researchers Work to Find Clarity for COVID Long-HaulersUCI’s Computer Science Program Ranked 4th by Best Value Schools »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




