https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-news-uci-advances-to-national-cyber-defense-competition-following-historic-regionals-win




UCI News: “UCI advances to national cyber defense competition following “historic” regionals win” 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI News: “UCI advances to national cyber defense competition following “historic” regionals win”
April 6, 2021 
A team of undergraduate students from the cybersecurity club in UCI’s Department of Computer Science is moving on to the National Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition following their recent first-place finish in the Western Regionals against several formidable opponents. Only the winners out of the nine regionals across the nation can directly advance to the national competition.

The CCDC pits teams representing top academic institutions against one another to assess students’ depth of knowledge and competency in protecting corporate information systems.
Having won the Western Regional Cyber Defense Competition, members of UCI’s cybersecurity club are now preparing for the national competition April 23-25. The team includes, top row, left to right: Qi Alfred Chen (advisor), Jordan Whiting (captain), Reggie Dequit; middle row, left to right: Sam Hansen, Brandon Nguyen, Jacob Bokor; bottom row, left to right: Alan Nguyen, Ryan Blanchard.
“This is an historic moment, as we have never made it this far in the CCDC,” said the team’s faculty advisor Qi Alfred Chen, UCI assistant professor of computer science. “We came in third place in 2019 and 2020, losing to strong rivals such as Stanford University, but this year we were able to beat all of our opponents. Every step we take from this point on will be a new achievement for UCI.”
Competitions are typically based on a scenario in which teams assume administrative duties for a network comprised of about 50 users and seven to 10 servers to handle internet traffic, websites, email and e-commerce functions. Teams respond to outside threats while trying to maintain services, continually balancing security against business needs.
“Everyone in the cybersecurity ecosystem understands that a lack of trained and tested cybersecurity professionals continues to present one of the most significant risks to our national and economic security,” said Bryan Cunningham, executive director of UCI’s Cybersecurity Policy and Research Institute, which sponsors UCI’s team. “Formal education is important, but real-world experience is highly valued in the cyber job market, and these competitions present just the sort of pressure-cooker environment cybersecurity professionals will face. These battle-tested students will be highly employable, and winning doesn’t hurt, either.”
Cyber@UCI team members are now preparing for the national competition which takes place April 23-25. The club also offers cybersecurity workshops, sponsors Capture the Flag competitions and provides opportunities for members to connect with cybersecurity professionals. “We are actively building a community of enthusiasts in hacking and cybersecurity,” said Chen, “Interested students are encouraged to join to together make more history happen in UCI cybersecurity.”
Article originally appeared at UCI News.
« Alumni Spotlight: Archana Senthilkumar’s Real-World Education Helps Bring Fictional Worlds to LifeComputer Science Student Cheng Zhang Receives Facebook Ph.D. Fellowship »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




