https://www.cs.uci.edu/computer-science-student-cheng-zhang-receives-facebook-ph-d-fellowship




Computer Science Student Cheng Zhang Receives Facebook Ph.D. Fellowship 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Computer Science Student Cheng Zhang Receives Facebook Ph.D. Fellowship
April 27, 2021 

On April 22, the 2021 Facebook Fellows were announced, including Cheng Zhang, a computer science Ph.D. student in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS). “It is a great honor for me to receive the Facebook Fellowship this year,” says Zhang. “It is delightful that my research is being recognized and awarded by the industry.”

The Facebook Fellowship program supports promising doctoral students in the areas of computer science and engineering, providing two years of paid tuition and fees and a $42,000 annual stipend for living and conference expenses. Facebook also covers the costs of attending the annual Fellowship Summit at Facebook headquarters.
Zhang was one of 26 fellows selected from a group of 71 finalists who remained from the more than 2,100 applications received. Among the finalists were ICS computer science Ph.D. students Vikram Narayanan (in the area of distributed systems) and Avinash Kumar (in the area of database systems). Zhang was recognized for his work in the area of AR/VR computer graphics.
“Zhang has been working on physics-based differentiable rendering — an emerging area with the potential to greatly benefit applications in many areas including computer graphics, vision, virtual/augmented reality (VR/AR), and computational imaging,” says Zhang’s adviser, Assistant Professor of Computer Science Shuang Zhao. “His recent works have established the mathematical and computational foundations for many problems in this area.”
Zhang, who hopes to go into industry after graduation, says his long-term goal is to “provide an efficient and robust solution to the inverse rendering problem centered around the inference of geometric and material properties from physical measurements (such as from photographs or a depth sensor).”
He first became interested in the topic after earning his bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering. “I have been a big fan of animations and movies, and that is the initial reason why I decided to study computer graphics.” He went on to earn his master’s degree in computer science at Columbia University and then started working with Zhao here at UCI to generate photo-realistic images using computers. 
“For decades, researchers have been working on this and great progress has been achieved, but it is still difficult to create high-quality 3D models to be rendered,” he explains. He notes that even an experienced artist usually needs a few hours to create a high-fidelity 3D model using specialized software such as Maya or Houdini. “I am interested in making this modeling process easier so that everyone can reconstruct a high-quality 3D model maybe just by taking some photos and letting the computer do the rest.”
— Shani Murray
« UCI News: “UCI advances to national cyber defense competition following “historic” regionals win”Michael Franz Wins ACM Chuck Thacker Breakthrough in Computing Award »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




