https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1943



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



March 11,  2021


TIPPERS Wins Naval Information Warfare Systems Command (NAVWAR) Innovation Award


Prioritizing “privacy by design” in a world increasingly interconnected through the Internet of Things (IoT), researchers in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) have created the TIPPERS (Testbed for IoT-based Privacy-Preserving PERvasive Spaces) system. Funded by DARPA through the Brandeis program, TIPPERS is an integrated IoT data management middleware that uses a variety of privacy-enhancing technologies.


“The TIPPERS system is an outcome of a very dedicated team of students and faculty at UCI, and our academic, government and industrial partners over the past five years,” says Computer Science Professor Sharad Mehrotra, who developed TIPPERS along with fellow Computer Science Professor Nalini Venkatasubramanian and a team of ICS researchers.
Recognizing the potential of IoT to enhance military operations, dynamically monitoring soldiers and their environment and greatly improving situational awareness, Mehrotra and his team partnered with researchers at the Naval Information Warfare Center (NIWC) Pacific, including ICS alumnus Mamadou H. Diallo. The collaboration was recently recognized with the 2021 Naval Information Warfare Systems Command (NAVWAR) Innovation Award.
“Our collaboration with NIWC researchers, headed by Dr. Diallo, to transition TIPPERS to the Navy and participate in naval exercises has been a very fruitful and rewarding experience,” says Mehrotra. “It is indeed an honor to see TIPPERS being recognized through the NAVWAR Innovations Award.”

Venkatasubramanian agrees. “The design and deployment of emerging IoT technologies to create privacy-aware smart spaces in the shipboard context, and to design relevant applications for situational awareness that aims to keep personnel safe, was a truly unique experience.”

Diallo, who received his B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. in ICS, is now an NIWC Pacific scientist focused on cybersecurity. “This award signifies the technological innovation of the TIPPERS system and its potential impact in the Navy systems and applications,” he says. “The NIWC Pacific research team recognizes the strong contribution of the DARPA performers on the TIPPERS project led by UCI in supporting the TIPPERS transition to the Navy. This is truly an honor for the UCI and NIWC Pacific research collaboration.”
— Shani Murray

TIPPERS Wins Naval Information Warfare Systems Command (NAVWAR) Innovation Award
< Previous
 ICS Researchers Work to Find Clarity for COVID Long-Haulers
            
Next >
 Celebrating Women in Statistics 2021
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











