https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1883



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



October 30,  2020


ICS Researchers Receive $1.5 Million NSF Grant for Smart Water Infrastructures

Can emerging technologies help alleviate water reliability concerns in various communities by minimizing water waste, supporting conservation and providing a resilient supply of safe drinking water? This is the question researchers in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) are working to address with a $1.5 million grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) through its Smart and Connected Communities (S&CC) program.

Nalini Venkatasubramanian
The project, “Creating an Extensible Data Exchange and Analytics Sandbox for Smart Water Infrastructures,” is being led by Computer Science Professor Nalini Venkatasubramanian. “We hope to develop next-generation water infrastructures using a data-centric approach, where data integration and analysis from multiple sources can help improve resilience,” she says. The goal is to foster greater interoperability between drinking water, stormwater and wastewater infrastructures.
A Cross-Disciplinary MissionAs outlined in the project abstract, the three water infrastructures are currently “designed and operated separately by an array of local governments, water districts and regulatory agencies — all subjected to stress caused by aging, urbanization, failures, extreme events and demand/supply variabilities.”
To address these issues, Venkatasubramanian is working with an interdisciplinary team of researchers and practitioners in computer science, civil engineering, public policy and social ecology to create a Smart Water Data-Exchange (SWADE) framework. “The project will take a holistic approach to the infusion of new technologies into water infrastructures,” she says, “accounting for the engineering aspects of this really old set of systems, as well as policies that can have societal and environmental impacts.”
Her collaborators include Sharad Mehrotra, a fellow computer science professor in the School of ICS; Shangping Ren, a professor of computer science at San Diego State University; Ronald Eguchi, a civil engineer who is CEO of ImageCat Inc., a company focusing on infrastructure resilience; and David Feldman, director of Water UCI, which facilitates multidisciplinary research to advance policy solutions that address the critical water problems facing California and beyond.
David Feldman
“The policy and societal challenges of mining, using and sharing water data across agencies, communities and sectors is an activity that exemplifies our cross-disciplinary mission,” says Feldman. And what exactly is that mission? “The advent of so-called smart water systems: the growing digitalization of water flows, water meter data, sound detection tools, and development of platforms that can analyze, model, and even automate certain water distribution and management functions at the city level.”
The team will be working with multiple water agencies, such as Orange County Public Works, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the Irvine Ranch Water District, and City of Chicago Wastewater Reclamation authorities.
Support for Smart Water SystemsThe SWADE framework will serve as a repository for collecting and analyzing information about diverse community water systems, allowing communities across the U.S. to share lessons learned and conduct experiments to better understand design choices as they invest in water systems.
The SWADE framework.
Key to developing the SWADE framework is leveraging recent advances in the Internet of Things (IoT), relying on strategically placed sensors and big data systems to analyze the complex and inter-related platforms using AI and machine learning. “We want to help cities more effectively manage the water they have,” says Venkatasubramanian. “The use of IoT technologies and data-driven methods can help monitor the multiple systems, isolate failures rapidly or trigger measures to improve water quality, which can help reduce the cost of transporting clean water.”
Sharad Mehrotra
Interoperability of data and policies for data sharing between organizations are required for this. “A variety of data management issues arise in this context — from techniques for cleaning and enriching data for better decision-making to filtering and obfuscation techniques to ensure data security,” says Mehrotra, a data management and security expert.
Another priority is community engagement and equity through an interconnected knowledge network that encourages ongoing and continual communication. “Innovations to the water infrastructure must engage diverse community partners,” Venkatasubramanian explains, “so that it can benefit all and not disenfranchise anyone.”
By the end of the three-year project, SWADE will become a repository of innovative tools and technologies that researchers and government officials can use to design improved water systems. “We hope that stakeholders will be able to leverage models in SWADE to rapidly create ‘digital twins’ of their own infrastructures, which they can then manipulate using ‘what-if analysis’ tools based on their community’s unique needs and available funding,” she says. “I’m really excited to get started on this project!”
— Shani Murray

ICS Researchers Receive $1.5 Million NSF Grant for Smart Water Infrastructures
< Previous
 Computer Science Researchers Win Best Paper Award for Work on Smart Community Monitoring
            
Next >
 ICS Welcomes 7 New Faculty for 2020
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











