https://www.cs.uci.edu/ics-researchers-work-to-find-clarity-for-covid-long-haulers




ICS Researchers Work to Find Clarity for COVID Long-Haulers 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


ICS Researchers Work to Find Clarity for COVID Long-Haulers
March 10, 2021 
“Understanding long-term COVID symptoms is an increasingly pressing priority for doctors and researchers,” notes a recent New York Times article, “as more and more people report debilitating or painful aftereffects that hamper their ability to work or function the way they did before.” The article cites troubling data coming from a new study, “COVID Symptoms, Symptom Clusters, and Predictors for Becoming a Long-Hauler: Looking for Clarity in the Haze of the Pandemic.”

Yong Huang
Yong Huang, a first-year Ph.D. student in UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), led the study (currently undergoing peer review but available as a preprint). The work was a collaboration between Huang and his advisers, Distinguished Professor of Computer Science Nikil Dutt and Assistant Professor of Nursing and Computer Science Amir Rahmani, and colleagues from UCI in nursing and the psychological sciences as well as from UCLA, Indiana University, the Mayo Clinic, and the University of Miami. “Many survivors suffer from various long-term post-COVID symptoms that significantly affect their quality of life,” explains Huang.
The team reviewed the electronic medical records of 1,407 people who tested positive for COVID-19 but did not require hospitalization during their infection. “What surprised me the most in this study is the large proportion of patients (27%) who reported symptoms more than 60 days after their infection,” says Huang. “And second, the wide range of symptoms patients may experience, [including] palpitations, dysgeusia, chills, insomnia, hyperhidrosis, and anxiety, which is proof that COVID-19 may affect multiple organs.”
Furthermore, 32% of those experiencing post-COVID symptoms were asymptomatic during their initial infection, and of the 34 children in the study, 11 were long-haulers.
The researchers conducted the study leveraging records from the UC COVID Research Data Set (UC CORDS). “We appreciate the people who put together this de-identified dataset with comprehensive longitudinal data from electronic health records,” says Huang. “UC CORDS provides valuable opportunities for multidisciplinary researchers to discover knowledge from this extensive medical information repository.”
Using the data, the team identified many factors that contribute to the development of long-hauler symptoms. They hope this provides valuable insights for other researchers working to help patients get back to their everyday lives. “It is very important to understand how COVID-19 affects patients’ well-being in the long run,” says Huang. “The biggest take-away from this project is that the long-term impact of COVID-19 on infected individuals’ lives is more severe than we thought.”
— Shani Murray
« The New York Times: “Many ‘Long Covid’ Patients Had No Symptoms From Their Initial Infection” (Nikil Dutt and Yong Huang referenced)TIPPERS Wins Naval Information Warfare Systems Command (NAVWAR) Innovation Award »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




