https://www.cs.uci.edu/ics-researchers-publish-novel-paper-on-system-design-for-virtual-beings




ICS Researchers Publish Novel Paper on System Design for Virtual Beings 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


ICS Researchers Publish Novel Paper on System Design for Virtual Beings
February 18, 2021 
A group of researchers from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) recently published a journal article describing the computing systems used in their AI-based artwork displayed at the Venice Biennale International Art Exhibition in Italy in 2019. “This is, to our knowledge, the first time a scientific writing describes a system that applies to virtual beings — the conjunction of chatbots and art — and that involves the use of edge computing tools,” says ICS postdoctoral researcher Neftali Watkinson.

The paper, “EdgeAvatar: An Edge Computing System for Building Virtual Beings,” appears in the 10th anniversary edition of Electronics, a semimonthly journal published by MDPI. Watkinson co-authored the work with computer science Ph.D. students Fedor Zaytsev and Mike Heddes, Ph.D. candidate Aniket Shivam, CSE student Michael Demirev, and Computer Science Professors Alex Nicolau, Alexander Veidenbaum and Tony Givargis.
EdgeAvatar is the system the team designed to implement two virtual beings displayed at the Venice Biennale: one piece represented the internationally renowned Jewish-Romanian poet Paul Celan, and another represented Romanian communist leader Nicolae Ceausescu. Both of these “Talking Head” portraits, developed in collaboration with artist Belu-Simion Fainaru, interacted with visitors by answering their questions.
The Paul Celan virtual being at the Venice Biennale cultural festival in 2019 (left), and UCI student Michael Demirev testing the system (right).
“The system uses principles of Edge computing to distribute computation among multiple devices/processing modules in order to create an immersive experience,” explains Watkinson. “Part of this experience is maintaining a natural conversation flow; therefore, a major section of the article deals with experiments and research on the adequate timings and silences between interactions that would achieve a human-like conversation.” Their findings reveal that more than 80% of the conversations that visitors had with these two virtual beings during the festival were successful. And the conversations continue. “One of the agents [Celan] was featured during UCI’s Brilliant Future inaugural dinner where, among other people, Chancellor Howard Gillman interacted with our system,” says Watkinson.
The team, led by Professors Nicolau and Veidenbaum, has continued developing works that explore the connections between art and technology. Another piece from the team and Fainaru, “King of the Jungle,” was on display at an international art event in Taiwan in 2020. This work “aims for a more visceral — direct, immediate — effect, with an element of surprise or mild shock,” says Nicolau. “AI is used more subtly here, in the animation/transformation of the image [of a leader].”
The team plans on further improving the EdgeAvatar system, leveraging advances in Edge computing, machine learning, computer graphics and engineering, and experimenting with different implementations in a variety of environments.
— Shani Murray
« Professor Amiri Sani’s Research Group Wins 2020 Android Security and PrIvacy REsearch (ASPIRE) AwardAlumni Chapter’s Lunch & Learn Panel Discussion Showcases Black Superstar Leaders in ICS »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




