https://www.cs.uci.edu/professor-sameer-singh-awarded-fairness-in-ai-grant-from-nsf-and-amazon




Professor Sameer Singh Awarded Fairness in AI Grant from NSF and Amazon 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Professor Sameer Singh Awarded Fairness in AI Grant from NSF and Amazon
February 9, 2021 

As Artificial Intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) grow increasingly accurate, they simultaneously grow more complex, threatening to undermine their progress in fields such as healthcare, law and finance because of a lack of transparency and trust. In an effort to contribute to the trustworthiness of AI systems, the National Science Foundation (NSF) and Amazon partnered together in 2019 to start funding projects through the Fairness in Artificial Intelligence program. Since the program first launched, 21 projects have been funded, including “Towards Adaptive and Interactive Post Hoc Explanations,” a collaboration between UCI, Harvard University and the University of Chicago.

The project aims to develop a novel framework for generating adaptive explanations of ML models, allowing for interactive communication, to help people better understand the decisions being made for and about them.
“UCI will be focused on creating explanations that adapt to the user’s need — that is, automatically creating custom explanations depending on what subgroups they are interested in, or what their level of expertise is in the ML application,” says Sameer Singh, assistant professor of computer science in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS).
The team will be focusing on multiple real-world application domains. For example, they plan to explore two healthcare applications: one for the early detection of seizures and another for diagnosing tumors. “For each, we will create ML explanation systems that aid medical professionals in their decision-making, adapting to their queries, domain expertise and history of interactions,” says Singh.
The work builds on previous collaborations between Singh and Assistant Professor Hima Lakkaraju of Harvard University. “Hima and I have been collaborating on papers on machine learning explanations for a while,” notes Singh. “However, one aspect we were missing were explanations that actually adapt, interact and customize to each user, which would make them much more useful.” Singh is excited that they are now partnering with Professors Chenhao Tan and Yuxin Chen from the University of Chicago to further explore this important area.
— Shani Murray
« UCI News: “UCI Institute for Future Health to harness technology to build personalized health model”Professor Amiri Sani’s Research Group Wins 2020 Android Security and PrIvacy REsearch (ASPIRE) Award »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




