https://www.cs.uci.edu/ics-researchers-receive-1-5-million-nsf-grant-for-smart-water-infrastructures




ICS Researchers Receive $1.5 Million NSF Grant for Smart Water Infrastructures 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


ICS Researchers Receive $1.5 Million NSF Grant for Smart Water Infrastructures
October 30, 2020 
Can emerging technologies help alleviate water reliability concerns in various communities by minimizing water waste, supporting conservation and providing a resilient supply of safe drinking water? This is the question researchers in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) are working to address with a $1.5 million grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) through its Smart and Connected Communities (S&CC) program.

Nalini Venkatasubramanian
The project, “Creating an Extensible Data Exchange and Analytics Sandbox for Smart Water Infrastructures,” is being led by Computer Science Professor Nalini Venkatasubramanian. “We hope to develop next-generation water infrastructures using a data-centric approach, where data integration and analysis from multiple sources can help improve resilience,” she says. The goal is to foster greater interoperability between drinking water, stormwater and wastewater infrastructures.
A Cross-Disciplinary MissionAs outlined in the project abstract, the three water infrastructures are currently “designed and operated separately by an array of local governments, water districts and regulatory agencies — all subjected to stress caused by aging, urbanization, failures, extreme events and demand/supply variabilities.”
To address these issues, Venkatasubramanian is working with an interdisciplinary team of researchers and practitioners in computer science, civil engineering, public policy and social ecology to create a Smart Water Data-Exchange (SWADE) framework. “The project will take a holistic approach to the infusion of new technologies into water infrastructures,” she says, “accounting for the engineering aspects of this really old set of systems, as well as policies that can have societal and environmental impacts.”
Her collaborators include Sharad Mehrotra, a fellow computer science professor in the School of ICS; Shangping Ren, a professor of computer science at San Diego State University; Ronald Eguchi, a civil engineer who is CEO of ImageCat Inc., a company focusing on infrastructure resilience; and David Feldman, director of Water UCI, which facilitates multidisciplinary research to advance policy solutions that address the critical water problems facing California and beyond.
David Feldman
“The policy and societal challenges of mining, using and sharing water data across agencies, communities and sectors is an activity that exemplifies our cross-disciplinary mission,” says Feldman. And what exactly is that mission? “The advent of so-called smart water systems: the growing digitalization of water flows, water meter data, sound detection tools, and development of platforms that can analyze, model, and even automate certain water distribution and management functions at the city level.”
The team will be working with multiple water agencies, such as Orange County Public Works, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the Irvine Ranch Water District, and City of Chicago Wastewater Reclamation authorities.
Support for Smart Water SystemsThe SWADE framework will serve as a repository for collecting and analyzing information about diverse community water systems, allowing communities across the U.S. to share lessons learned and conduct experiments to better understand design choices as they invest in water systems.
The SWADE framework.
Key to developing the SWADE framework is leveraging recent advances in the Internet of Things (IoT), relying on strategically placed sensors and big data systems to analyze the complex and inter-related platforms using AI and machine learning. “We want to help cities more effectively manage the water they have,” says Venkatasubramanian. “The use of IoT technologies and data-driven methods can help monitor the multiple systems, isolate failures rapidly or trigger measures to improve water quality, which can help reduce the cost of transporting clean water.”
Sharad Mehrotra
Interoperability of data and policies for data sharing between organizations are required for this. “A variety of data management issues arise in this context — from techniques for cleaning and enriching data for better decision-making to filtering and obfuscation techniques to ensure data security,” says Mehrotra, a data management and security expert.
Another priority is community engagement and equity through an interconnected knowledge network that encourages ongoing and continual communication. “Innovations to the water infrastructure must engage diverse community partners,” Venkatasubramanian explains, “so that it can benefit all and not disenfranchise anyone.”
By the end of the three-year project, SWADE will become a repository of innovative tools and technologies that researchers and government officials can use to design improved water systems. “We hope that stakeholders will be able to leverage models in SWADE to rapidly create ‘digital twins’ of their own infrastructures, which they can then manipulate using ‘what-if analysis’ tools based on their community’s unique needs and available funding,” she says. “I’m really excited to get started on this project!”
— Shani Murray
« Computer Science Researchers Win Best Paper Award for Work on Smart Community MonitoringFaculty Spotlight: Professor Jing Zhang Works to Advance Genomics »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




