https://www.cs.uci.edu/computer-science-researchers-contribute-to-editors-choice-paper-on-deep-learning-and-hair-loss




Computer Science Researchers Contribute to ‘Editor’s Choice’ Paper on Deep Learning and Hair Loss 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Computer Science Researchers Contribute to ‘Editor’s Choice’ Paper on Deep Learning and Hair Loss
October 13, 2020 
Two computer science researchers from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) are co-authors of a paper selected as the Editor’s Choice for the October issue of the Lasers in Surgery and Medicine journal. Computer science Ph.D. student Gregor Urban and his adviser, Distinguished Professor Pierre Baldi, are part of the multidisciplinary team behind “Combining Deep Learning with Optical Coherence Tomography Imaging to Determine Scalp Hair and Follicle Counts.” Urban and Baldi worked with dermatology physicians Natasha Mesinkovska and Chloe Ekelem, and with undergraduate students Ella Csuka and Kiana Hashemi, medical student Nate Feil, and M.D. resident Franchesca Choi.

“The success of this project is predicated on having a diverse, interdisciplinary team,” says Baldi. The project focused on the widespread issue of hair loss. “Scientific assessment of the efficacy of any treatment requires being able to accurately count hair over a fixed area of the scalp,” says Baldi, explaining that he and Urban found a way to conduct the process using machine learning methods.
UCI researchers and doctors (from left): Computer science Ph.D. student Gregor Urban, Dr. Natasha Mesinkovska, Dr. Margit Juhasz, Dr. Delila Foulad, and Dr. Chloe Ekelem scanning UCI alumnae Cristine Pham.
While current methods can be somewhat invasive, their approach offers a completely non-invasive method for evaluating the effectiveness of hair growth therapies. Using laser-based imaging — specifically, optical coherence tomography (OCT) — and automated deep learning, they can automatically and rapidly identify and count all hairs.
The team evaluated their proposed method on 70 different OCT scans and found that the automated deep learning system’s accuracy was similar to that of human evaluators but significantly faster. They argue that their approach is well positioned to become a standard for non-invasive evaluation of hair growth treatment progress in patients, saving significant amounts of time and effort compared to manual evaluation.
— Shani Murray
« Virtual Workshop on Privacy Aspects of Contact Tracing – Oct. 2Computer Science Researchers Win Best Paper Award for Work on Smart Community Monitoring »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




