https://www.cs.uci.edu/virtual-workshop-on-privacy-aspects-of-contact-tracing-oct-2




Virtual Workshop on Privacy Aspects of Contact Tracing – Oct. 2 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Virtual Workshop on Privacy Aspects of Contact Tracing – Oct. 2
October 1, 2020 

UCI Professors Athina Markopoulou and Gene Tsudik have helped organize the inaugural one-day Virtual Workshop on Privacy Aspects of Contract Tracing from 8:30 a.m.-3 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 2 via Zoom. 
With mobile devices and networking technologies useful tools in the battle against COVID-19, especially for digital contact tracing and risk assessment, this virtual workshop will discuss recent developments in this rapidly evolving area, with a particular focus on privacy aspects. The workshop also brings together participants with technical background (networking, security and privacy, and related areas), as well as policy expertise (data protection, disease surveillance and other information-related aspects of public health). 

The workshop is organized by the Team of ProperData, an NSF SaTC Frontier project led by UCI.  
Please register for the Zoom workshop HERE.   
« ICS Team Takes 1st Place at Baidu’s AutoDriving Capture the Flag CompetitionComputer Science Researchers Contribute to ‘Editor’s Choice’ Paper on Deep Learning and Hair Loss »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




