https://www.cs.uci.edu/professor-rina-dechter-receives-2020-classic-paper-award




Professor Rina Dechter Receives 2020 Classic Paper Award 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Professor Rina Dechter Receives 2020 Classic Paper Award
September 24, 2020 

Distinguished Professor of Computer Science Rina Dechter recently received the 2020 Classic Paper Award from the Artificial Intelligence Journal. Given to papers “published at least 15 calendar years ago in the AI Journal that are exceptional in their significance and impact,” this year’s award recognized “Temporal Constraint Networks,” which Dechter co-authored with Itay Meiri and Judea Pearl in 1991. The work introduced a new framework called the temporal constraint satisfaction problem (TCSP).

“The TCSP, and the polytime solvable special case of simple (non-disjunctive) temporal problems, have gained widespread use in planning and scheduling and other applications,” notes the award announcement. “The simple and elegant problem formulation of this paper also inspired subsequent work on temporal reasoning with temporal uncertainty, preferences and other extensions.”
The paper, with close to 2,500 citations, has been used by researchers in planning and robotics, including by NASA researchers to support expeditions such as the Mars Exploration Rover mission.
Upon learning she had received the award, Dechter says she “was very pleased.” Currently, she is working with her colleague Alex Ihler on a National Science Foundation (NSF) grant titled “Anytime Algorithms and Bounds for Probabilistic Graphical Models.” Through this project, they are developing algorithms for planning and decision-making under uncertainty, hoping to support future advancements in computer vision, computational biology and genetics, and data mining.
— Shani Murray
« Women in Technology at UCI: First Event Offers Encouragement and EmpowermentAlumni Spotlight: Dan Woolley’s Success in Building from Scratch »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




