https://www.cs.uci.edu/professor-mandt-awarded-nsf-grant-on-deep-variational-data-compression




Professor Mandt Awarded NSF Grant on Deep Variational Data Compression 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Professor Mandt Awarded NSF Grant on Deep Variational Data Compression
September 12, 2020 

Given the forecast that “by 2021, users will view 3 trillion internet videos per month, or about a million video minutes every second,” it’s clear that data compression remains critical to the field of computer science. In an effort to develop innovative ways to store and distribute information, Professor Stephan Mandt of UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) is exploring fundamentally new approaches for compressing video and images to unprecedentedly small file sizes while preserving visual quality.

In support of this work, Mandt has been awarded $425,000 in funding from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for his grant “Deep Variational Data Compression.” The goal is to promote new ideas within data compression using deep neural networks — in particular, so-called variational autoencoders.
“Deep learning has the potential to revolutionize how images and videos are compressed to very small file sizes with minimal quality loss,” explains Mandt. “In particular, improving video compression is very timely, since most web traffic is nowadays due to streaming.”
Mandt will contribute to better compression algorithms by improving video coding, enabling faster data transfer between machine learning systems, and improving the modularity of neural codec design.
“Learned video codecs can be made even more efficient than general-purpose codecs when tuned to particular data modalities,” he explains. “The work will explore fundamentally new ways of compressing videos and images using recent advances in generative modeling and Bayesian deep learning.”
Advances in neural compression could also support data storage and distribution in fields such as astronomy, medical imaging, autonomous driving and particle physics.
— Shani Murray
« Professors Amiri Sani and Tsudik Investigate Techniques to Authenticate Photos and VideosUCI Ranked 25th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




