https://www.ics.uci.edu/grad/admissions/Prospective_ApplicationProcess.php



graduate application process @ the bren school of information and computer sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Graduate / Admissions


Graduate Application Process

Online applications for graduate admissions are accepted from September 5th to December 15th. All materials as outlined below should be submitted before the December 15th deadline.
You can still apply to ICS if your undergraduate degree is not in the same area as the graduate degree in which you are interested. However, it is helpful if you have taken courses in computer science and math, and/or have some related work experience.
ICS accepts applications for admission beginning in the Fall Quarter only.
All applicants are evaluated on the materials submitted: letters of recommendation, official GRE test scores, official college transcripts, statement of purpose, and personal history statement. To learn more if the GRE is required for the program please view the admissions criteria page from the Graduate Division. 
An applicant to the M.S./Ph.D. in Informatics, M.S./Ph.D. in Software Engineering, the Master of Human-Computer Interaction and Design, or the Master of Software Engineering is strongly encouraged to submit additional material that enriches their application and speaks to the applicant's strengths (e.g., design portfolio, link to GitHub profile, GRE test scores, scholarly papers submitted and/or published, writing samples).
» Online Application
Complete the online application. Pay particular attention to the following:

Save your application ID and student ID numbers; they will be asked of you when filling out other documents.
You must supply a valid e-mail address that you will maintain at least 8 months after you apply. If you are admitted, you will be notified via this e-mail address.
Applications are processed after the application fee has been received. The application fee cannot be waived.
You can apply for more than one program simultaneously, but you must fill out a separate application and pay a separate fee for each program.
Please note that the ICS Student Affairs Office cannot give you your admissions decision through email or over the phone.
For answers to our frequently asked questions, please view our Graduate Division's FAQ here.
If you have questions regarding your electronic application or your payment, contact UCI Graduate Division at (949) 824-4611 or gradapplicant@uci.edu. 

Enter the appropriate codes for ICS. Note that you must choose either M.S. or Ph.D. as ICS does not have a M.S./Ph.D. program. Enter a specific area of interest. More information about research areas can be found here.


Computer Science, Ph.D.
Computer Science, M.S.
Informatics, Ph.D.
Informatics, M.S.
Networked Systems, Ph.D. (Computer Science Department)
Networked Systems, M.S. (Computer Science Department)
Software Engineering, Ph.D. (Informatics Department)
Software Engineering, M.S. (Informatics Department)
Statistics, Ph.D.
Statistics, M.S.
Professional Master of Computer Science (Computer Science Department) – Please see website for admissions ﻿requirements. Deadline is December 15
Professional Master of Human-Computer Interaction and Design (Informatics Department) – Please see website for admissions requirements. Deadline is March 15, 2018
Professional Master of Embedded & Cyber-Physical Systems (Joint program between the School of Engineering and ICS)
Professional Master of Software Engineering (Informatics Department)
Professional Master of Data Science (Statistics Department)


» GRE and English Language Proficiency 
Arrange to have your official test scores sent from the testing agency to UC Irvine. Photocopies or scans will not be accepted.
GRE

To learn more if the GRE is required for the program please view the admissions criteria page from the Graduate Division. 
For official GRE General test scores, use Institutional code: 4859
There is no minimum GRE score.
GRE scores are good for five years, after which time the exam must be retaken.
We cannot accept GMAT scores in lieu of GRE scores.


English Language Proficiency

The TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) or IELTS (International English Language Testing System) is required of international applicants.
To view more information on English language proficiency standards please view the Graduate Division page.

» Letters of Recommendation
Three letters of recommendation are required. Complete the Letter of Recommendation section on the online application. This will allow you to enter in your recommenders' names and e-mail addresses. An automated e-mail invitation will be sent to each of your recommenders. It is strongly recommended that you waive or decline to waive your rights of access to your letters of recommendation. After you have completed and submitted your application, you may continue to manage and monitor the status of their submission by logging into your online application and viewing the status page. You should request letters from people you have identified who can evaluate your academic and/or professional achievements, describe your strengths and weaknesses and comment on your character, integrity and motivation.
» Statement of Purpose and Personal History Statement
The "Statement of Purpose" should focus on your academic/research background and interests. The "Personal History Statement"  essay should focus on your personal background and any challenges or obstacles you may have encountered in your academic journey and how you overcame them.
Statement of Purpose (Required):A statement of your personal, academic, and professional goals, as well as why and how this program will help you to achieve these goals.
Personal History Statement (Optional, but highly recommended):Your personal history describing circumstances that have contributed to your successes and/or challenges encountered during your academic and/or professional career.
» Official Transcripts
For application review purposes only, scan and upload copies of transcripts for all institutions attended since high school. In the online application, you will be prompted to upload your scanned documents. Please upload both the front and back sides of the transcript. Uploaded transcripts should be recent and include the following: your name, dates of attendance, grades/marks received, credits and grading legend. UCI reserves the right to require official transcripts at any time during the admission process, and rescind any offer of admission made if discrepancies between uploaded and official transcript(s) are found. Official transcripts will be requested if and when you are admitted and decide to attend UCI. Do not send official transcripts until this time, unless you are requested to do so.
» Checking Your Application Status
Applicants may log in to the online SLATE account to check for application materials received and their current application status.
Ph.D. and M.S. admissions decisions are ongoing from approximately March through May. Acceptance and denial letters will be sent electronically.
We cannot provide you with the final decision over the phone. 




More Graduate

Contact
Prospective students
How to Apply

Academic year plan
Course Updates
Forms and Policies
Admissions FAQ
Funding
Housing
Computing support
Campus resources
Visit the Bren School
 








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











