https://mhcid.ics.uci.edu/admissions/admissions-overview










Admissions Overview | MHCID ICS





































 












Search for:



 





Menu
Skip to content
Program


About The Program
Curriculum
Capstone Projects



People


Current Students
Alumni
Advisory Board
Faculty and Staff



Admissions


Admissions Overview
Online Information Sessions
Costs and Financial Aid



FAQ











		  Admissions Overview  	




Admissions Overview



Applications are now closed. Next year’s deadline is June 30, 2023.
Please contact the MHCID program director at mhciddirector@ics.uci.edu for further information.
Admission Requirements

Bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college or university in the United States, or the international equivalent. Note, we only accept 4-year undergraduate degrees, not 3-year degrees.
A minimum 3.0 grade point average (on a 4.0 scale)
Demonstrated English-language proficiency for applicants whose native language is not English (for more information: http://www.grad.uci.edu/admissions/applying-to-uci/english-proficiency.html)

Required Application Materials

Online application https://apply.grad.uci.edu/apply/
Statement of Purpose — Tell us a bit about why you want to join this program, where you see this program fitting in to your broader career trajectory, your future career goals, and so on.
Resume or curriculum vitae.
Three letters of recommendation (ignore the request that is standard UCI application language that these be “instructors” in this area of study. These can–and often should–be managers, peers, or clients at work or instructors from another area of study).
Unofficial transcripts from every college or university attended need to be uploaded. Once a student is admitted, they will be notified by Graduate Division how and where to send their official transcript.
Choose one to send (we strongly recommend a portfolio, see the linked instructions below):

Portfolio demonstrating applicable work experience, which should be linked from either your statement of purpose or your resume
GRE scores



For International Applicants:

Please note that we welcome international applicants. However, there are some important things to know about visas.

If you are here already on some kind of non-education related visa (marriage and family, work, etc.), you should be eligible to enroll in our program without trouble. However, we encourage you to check with our international center as well as an immigration attorney.
You do not need a student visa to join our program, and therefore we do not support you in getting one through the program. Because it is low-residency, meaning we do not require you to be on campus for more than a week at at time, we do not at this time have the ability to offer I-20s. Again, for additional questions, please consult with our international center and an immigration attorney.


TOEFL scores may be required for admissions (please check here for more information http://www.grad.uci.edu/admissions/applying-to-uci/english-proficiency.html)

Please note: If you are a prospective student seeking a professional UX master’s program, please select the Master of Human-Computer Interaction and Design program. If you are a prospective student seeking a heavily research-oriented program, please select the M.S. informatics program when applying to UCI.























Feedback
Privacy Policy
					© 2022 UC Regents
				














