http://www.ics.uci.edu/%7Eemj




Eric Mjolsness | Department of Computer Science, University of California Irvine
























Eric Mjolsness


Department of Computer Science, University of California Irvine



Skip to content

HomeAbout
Papers

Computational Biology Papers
Modeling Frameworks Papers
Machine Learning Papers
Vision and Image Analysis Papers
Optimization Papers
Cognition Papers
Computational Field Geology Papers
Neural Network Papers
Calculational papers


Projects

Computational Biology Projects

Computable Plant Project




Topics
Software

Research Software – Computational Biology
Cambium biomathematical model translation software


Selected Talks

Talks – Computational Biology


Teaching
PhD Theses
Reviews
Grand Questions
CV & News
Opportunities
Democracy








UCI academic site

Posted on December 5, 2012 by emj 

This is the academic web site of Prof. Eric Mjolsness, Departments of Computer Science and Mathematics, University of California Irvine. Content including papers is accessed by the Papers, Projects, etc. tabs above, some of which are hierarchical. An older site is here.
My main research interest currently (as of 2017) is “Mathematical AI/ML for Multiscale Science”, with a strong emphasis on biology. Here mathematical AI is Artificial Intelligence via high-level symbolic representations (such as computer algebra) of applied mathematical analysis, geometry, algebra, etc.; and ML is mathematical Machine Learning. An important application is to trainable changes of spatiotemporal scale in scientific models, which are very useful for pursuing multiscale science. Multiscale science is in turn motivated by the massive success of scientific reductionism, which operates by relating scientific fields that describe nature at different spatial and temporal scales.
 When scientific models go spatial, they often result in dynamically changing forms – “Morphodynamics” – that continually alter the patterns of interaction between many other dynamical variables in a good model. This phenomenon poses a fascinating challenge for mathematical/ computational frameworks that would relate different scales. We have pursued this topic particularly in the area of computational plant science. 



Posted in Uncategorized 
|
Comments Off on UCI academic site








Search for:





Recent Posts


UCI academic site


Recent CommentsArchives

December 2012

Categories

Uncategorized


Meta

Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.org

 






					Eric Mjolsness				



					Proudly powered by WordPress.				









