https://www.ics.uci.edu/~scottcb



C.B. Scott's Thesis Page










Cory Braker Scott
		Ph.D. Graduate from:
		Donald Bren School of Informatics and Computer Science
		UC Irvine
		old: scottcb at uci dot edu
		new: cbs at coloradocollege dot edu
		he/him/his
	
 

About me:
This was previously my personal webpage as a grad student at University of California, Irvine. While there, I studied applications of multiscale modeling techniques to machine learning under the guidance of my advisor, Eric Mjolsness. I have since graduated and moved on to a tenure-track position at Colorado College, a small liberal arts college in Colorado Springs. My personal webpage at CC is more up-to-date about my current research and service pursuits. This page now mainly serves as a respository for my PhD thesis work. 
Thesis pages:
 
    In order, here is a short description of the chapters of my thesis, all available on this site.  
    Note: the HTML pages on this website were generated by an automated tool from my original LaTeX files. This process is brittle and prone to error, so these pages are presented here for convenience and should be considered inferior to the `canonical' version, a PDF available  here  In the case of any inconsistency (in particular, buggy equations or figures) the PDF wins out.
    
 Introduction What makes GDD (Graph Diffusion Distance) interesting to study? What are some similar other approaches for comparing graphs?
     Diffusion Distance - Definitions
 Diffusion Distance - Properties
 Diffusion Distance - Efficent Calculation
 Diffusion Distance - Numerical Properties
 Multiscale Neural Network Training
 Graph Prolongation Convolutional Networks
 Other Applications
 Conclusion and References


 Other things I'm passionate about: teaching, PoC and LGBT+ inclusion in the sciences, and making things! Feel free to email me to discuss research or any of these topics. 

 

	"I am, somehow, less interested in the weight and convolutions of Einstein's brain than in the near certainty that people of equal talent have lived and died in cotton fields and sweatshops." - Steven J Gould
 
 


