https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/research/research-papers/experiential-computing








Experiential Computing – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation




 



    				Experiential Computing    			


Working in all areas related to vision, perception, information systems, and intelligent systems, it started becoming clear to Ramesh that the application models have an important role to play and these models should be dynamic. His doctoral research in control theory kept reminding him the role of information assimilation based on strong application models. All this slowly started coming together. But there are daunting problems here.

Y. Roth, R. Jain, “Knowledge Caching for Sensor-Based Systems,” Artificial Intelligence, 2-24. 1994.


[Though this work was done in the context of mobile robots, it became foundational for research in experiential environments.]


R. Jain and K. Wakimoto, “Multiple Perspective Interactive Video,”Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Multimedia Systems. May 1995.


[First research paper addressing creation of 3-d models of a real world dynamic event captured from multiple perspectives so it could then be presented to a user from her own vantage point. Beginning of what Ramesh likes to call Real Reality.]


Katkere, S. Moezzi, D. Kuramura, P. Kelly, and R. Jain, “Towards Video-Based Immersive Environments,” ACM-Springer Multimedia Systems Journal, Special Issue on Multimedia and Multisensory Virtual Worlds Spring 1996.


[Extending the concepts introduced in MPI Video to make them immersive. This work was one of the earliest in a series of research project that addressed immersive environments. After a hiatus of about a decade, this area is again becoming very active.]


Ramesh Jain, “Folk Computing” in Communications of Association of Computing Machinery, April 2003.


[This paper was based on observations as an advisor to Media Lab Asia in India. It argued that for mass use of computing mobile phones with non-keyboard interfaces are essential. This paper talked about ideas that were made concrete a few years later by iPhone.]


Ramesh Jain, “Experiential Computing”, in Communications of Association of Computing Machinery, July 2003.


[This paper presented early ideas of experiential computing and experiential environments. The ideas presented in this and folk computing paper are increasingly finding applications in different computing environments.]


G. Utz Westermann and Ramesh Jain,” Towards a Common Event Model for Multimedia Applications”, in IEEE Multimedia, January 2007.


[Ramesh has been interested in using events as complimentary representational and computational element to objects. In this paper, a computational approach to represent events in general computational applications is presented.]


Ramesh Jain, “EventWeb: Events and Experiences in Human Centered Computing”, (Cover Feature) in IEEE Computer, February 2008.


[This paper introduces the concept of EventWeb as a complimentary Web to the current document Web as well as other evolving Webs.]


Vivek K. Singh, Mingyan Gao, Ramesh Jain: Social pixels: genesis and evaluation. ACM Multimedia 2010: 481-490.


[This paper introduces the concept of event image – termed as Emage – for unifying information from heterogeneous sources for situation recognition.]


R. Jain and D. Sonnen,”Social Life Networks”, IEEE IT Professional, September 2011.


[Social networks connect people to people. The most important problem in human society is to connect people to appropriate resources at a given time in their given situation. This paper introduces that concept and builds on that.]














Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


