https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/blog/page/3








Blogs – Page 3 – Ramesh Jain



























 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation



Entrepreneur



Researcher



Teacher



 



 



Back to Cyber – 3: Now and Future



Social Life Networks In our research group, we are developing a framework that we termed Social Life networks because this is a network of people, sensors, and actuators to solve important social life problems, such as emergency response, traffic management,… 



By Ramesh |
    				October 9, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Back to Cyber – 2: Computational Cybernetics



From computational perspective, there are the following major steps in building a cybernetic system: • Building model of the system • Measuring appropriate parameters continuously • Estimating State • Deciding actions to be applied to the system The easiest to… 



By Ramesh |
    				October 7, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Back to Cyber – 1



With advances in computing, we now live in the cyber space, talk about Cyber-Physical systems, and have started thinking about Cyber-Physical-Social systems. Cyber has become almost synonymous with Internet and the Web. Social computing is taking us back to the… 



By Ramesh |
    				October 5, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Objective Self 6: From an individual to society



An individual is just an individual. And each individual is unique. In a human society, individuals interact and associate in many ways. Also, many human beings are related to each other along many dimensions ranging from their living area, profession,… 



By Ramesh |
    				August 19, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Objective Self 5:  Finally We may have Objective Self



As discussed above, the quantified-self movement is an important step in bringing scientific framework to understand an individual based on data collected continuously. This is the first time in history of humanity that this has become feasible. The early stages… 



By Ramesh |
    				August 18, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 



« Previous
Next »











Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 





