https://jgarcia.ics.uci.edu/?page_id=295








Projects – Joshua Garcia @ UCI
































 
Search






									Joshua Garcia @ UCI								





AboutCVProjectsPublicationsServiceStudentsTeachingNavigation




 



    				Projects    			





Forecasting Architectural Decay from Evolutionary History

Tool and dataset is available here.


Software Architecture INstrument (SAIN), a first-of-its-kind integration framework for assembling architecture-related techniques and tools with the goal of enabling empirical research in the context of software maintenance.

Infrastructure is available here.


Librarian: a tool designed to identify native libraries and their versions as found in Android apps, input data, and extended evaluation results.

Tool, input data, and extended evaluation results are available here.


A Comprehensive Study of Autonomous Vehicle Bugs

Dataset is available here.


Darcy: Detection and Repair of Architectural Inconsistencies in Java
RevealDroid: Lightweight, Obfuscation-Resilient Detection and Family Identification of Android Malware
LetterBomb: Automatic Generation of Inter-Component Communication Exploits for Android Applications
SALMA: Self-Protection of Android Systems from Inter-Component Communication Attacks
COVERT: Compositional Analysis of Android Inter-Application Vulnerabilities
A Large-Scale Empirical Study on the Effects of Code Obfuscations on Android Apps and Anti-Malware Products

Get the Android App obfuscation framework and datasets


A Taxonomy of Program Analysis Techniques for Security Assessment of Android Apps

Check out the classification of Android security analysis papers


TrimDroid: Reducing Combinatorics in GUI Testing of Android Applications
Architectural Recovery using Concerns (ARC): an approach for recovery of the components of a software systems architecture that leverages topic models
Architecture Recovery, Change, And Decay Evaluator (ARCADE): a software workbench that employs a suite of architecture-recovery techniques and a set of metrics for measuring different aspects of architectural change. Users include Huawei, Northrup Grumman, and Boeing.

Old version available here
Please contact me, Duc Le (ducmle at usc dot edu), Daniel Link (dlink at usc dot edu), or  Nenad Medvidović (neno at usc dot edu) for the latest version


Eos: a tool for identifying messages, inter-component dependencies based on messages, intra-component dependencies based on messages, and attributes of a message in a distributed event-based system.

Get the tool here


Ground-Truth Software Architectures: architectures recovered with the aid of a software system’s architect or long-time architecturally aware developer.

Includes Apache Hadoop, Bash (Bourne Again Shell), Apache OODT, and ArchStudio.
Includes Google Chromium.


Apache Object Oriented Data Technology (OODT) (as an Apache Committer): a framework for
large-scale distributed data management and processing.
















Copyright © 2022 Joshua Garcia @ UCI |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


