https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/echronicles








eChronicles – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				eChronicles    			


Yesterday Gopal Pingali from IBM Reseach came to visit us.  He gave a talk in my class on Next Generation Search Systems as well as in a seminar under Rescue and CalIT2.  His talk was on eChronicles or Multimedia Electronic Chronilces.
Chronicles play a very important role in our personal life as well as in all aspects of society.  At one time chronicles had to be very limited due to technology for keeping, maintaining, distributing, and accessing records.  Advances in all aspects of sensing, storage, distribution, mining, and access technology are changing the way we can create and maintian chronicles.  This is changing the way things are starting to happen in this space.  I wrote about eChronicles some time ago in a magazine – the link is given here:
http://www.ics.uci.edu/~jain/media-vision/eChronicles.pdf
Gopal presented his research in Tennis analytics, to business applications, and now to the DARPA program.  His presentation was very well received.  Clearly he has been thinking on this topic and has synthesized ideas from disparate areas to build a unified perspective.  Now with this, a unified research approach can be developed.  He will be giving a key not talk at ICME 2005 on this topic.
Here is a picture after the talk.




By Ramesh |
    				June 9, 2005 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Landmarks in life
Seraja presentation at Where 2.0 →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


