https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/seraja-presentation-at-where-20








Seraja presentation at Where 2.0 – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Seraja presentation at Where 2.0    			


Now I am involved in a new start-up company.  I started discussing with Rajesh Jain about this company a few months ago and we decided to co-found this to build a company that will bring experiential search environment for exploring different events that are going on.   We started some development in February when I took a trip from Singapore to India to meet some people to share my vision.  I think we now have some ideas about the direction this company is taking — and I must say that I am very excited.  Our development team is on track and doing very good job.
The first presentation about the product of the company will be made at Where 2.0 conference in San Francisco at the end of this month.  I will talk about ‘Experiential Computing’ and will show a demo of our pre-alpha version at this conference.
It has been an experience to be in USA and work with the team in India.  Communication is difficult but it appears that with correct people it can be done.  At this point I am very excited about the development team.  There were a few times when I felt that distance does matter a lot, but then with some time and effort, things have been going well.  I find that the most important factor is the motivation and the desire of the team.  In this case our team has strong motivation and they have shown that they really want to make this happen.  I am very excited about the conferene and then launching alpha version of our product in a few months.



By Ramesh |
    				June 12, 2005 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← eChronicles
Product Development in India →



			One thought on “Seraja presentation at Where 2.0”		




sandeep May 21, 2008 at 6:19 am 

I just read an article about seraja.com but the site is not accessible. Is this project still alive.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


