https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/prague-is-pretty-impressive








Prague is pretty impressive – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Prague is pretty impressive    			


On the way back from Bulgaria, I decide to spend about two days in Prague.  I had heard that Prague is a beautiful city and that turned out to be a correct statement.  Prague has beuatiful old buildings, typical European charm of roadside cafes, lots of history, and good shops.  I enjoyed my time here — now I leave early morning tomorrow.
In addition to seeing Prague, I went to country side to a village.  My daughter Swati’s best friend lives there — she lives in La Jolla also, but she is from that village and took me there to meet her family and friends.  This was an interesting experience.  Visiting a group of people who don’t speak the languages you do, spending time with them in a bar, and walking around in that village — all this is very interesting.  It also shows how similar are human beings — the life there reminded me of life in villages in India.  Of course, ths village is a Czech village — which is surprisingly quite clean, neat, well organized place — but the life is same peaceful, at your pace and close to nature.  I enjoyed it.
There was a lot of time for different thoughts to be wandering through my head.  ANd one of the thing that is on my mind now is the role of events — not only in technical terms, but also how efficient (or should I say inefficient) are current search systems and portals in finding events.  More on this coming soon.



By Ramesh |
    				June 19, 2005 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Bulgarian Experience
Computer vision →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


