https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/visual-info-retrieval








Visual Info Retrieval – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Visual Info Retrieval    			


Recently I gave the key note talk at Computer Systems and Technology conference in Varna, Bulgaria.  The title of the talk was: Visual Information Retrieval: The next frontier in search.  For the proceedings of the conference I had to write a paper.  Here is the abstract of the paper — the full paper can be seen at
www.ics.uci.edu/~jain/papers
The abstract of the paper is:
The first ten years of search techniques for WWW have been concerned with text documents.  The nature of data on WWW and in computing is rapidly changing and is fast moving towards multimedia, including text.  We believe that the next major frontier in search is the visual search based on visual information retrieval.  This search will in fact take us to multimedia search.  In this paper, we present some ideas related to the history of visual search and how it is evolving.  We also present our perspective in this area.



By Ramesh |
    				July 17, 2005 |
    				             		Prospecting Information |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← YRL – Berkeley
Future: Google and News (Interesting Viewpoint) →



			3 thoughts on “Visual Info Retrieval”		




Joe July 17, 2005 at 8:26 am 

I’m having difficulty following the link to the full paper, getting UCI’s 404 not found page.  Is anyone else having this problem?








Ramesh  Post authorJuly 17, 2005 at 2:36 pm 

Thanks, Joe.  I appreciate your pointing out the typo.
The typo is corrected.  The correct link is:
http://www.ics.uci.edu/~jain/papers








chandar July 18, 2005 at 3:54 am 

Sir
What is Longhorn, Internet Explorer to support Data feeds which comes directly to Computers?
Microsoft to open windows for RSS.
Can you please explain?
Regards







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


