https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/future-google-and-news-interesting-viewpoint








Future: Google and News (Interesting Viewpoint) – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Future: Google and News (Interesting Viewpoint)    			


Prof. Susanne Boll is a very active researcher, an interesting person, and a good friend.  She is in Singapore for CIVR.  During dinner in research context she mentioned a video circulating about how Google is going to take over the world in 2014.  You may find it funny or scary depending on your perspective.  I definitely found it ‘interesting’.  Some things that are clearly more of the fictional — science fiction — style but are things that are worth seeing.  Here is the link for the video:
http://www.lightover.com/epic/



By Ramesh |
    				July 17, 2005 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Visual Info Retrieval
Sensor net for traffic →



			3 thoughts on “Future: Google and News (Interesting Viewpoint)”		




online casinos September 4, 2005 at 9:58 pm 

Hey I really like your site.
online casinos








mozzilla firefox August 1, 2006 at 8:52 am 

Im looking for the presentation about the future of Newspapers.








View Point Atlanta Condos March 24, 2009 at 7:08 am 

First time I’ve seen that video. I find it interesting as well and looking back at how old it is find it reassuring that google has yet to take over the world.  They are doing some amazing things to gather and organize the masses of data floating around out there.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


