http://www.ics.uci.edu/~jain/presentations








Presentations – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Presentations    			


Each presentation will open in a new browser window.

 Context in Multimedia Information Retrieval.   Tutorial at ACM Multimedia 2003, Berkeley, CA, USA, on  November 2nd, 2003. 
Multimedia  Electronic Chronicles. Distinguished Speaker Talk at Buffalo, University at Buffalo, on October 23, 2003.
Experiential Computing: From Information to Insights. Cray Lecture, University of Minnesota, on October 6, 2003. 
Insights in Image and Video Retrieval. Key Note Talk at CIVR 2003, Urbana, IL, on July 24,  2003.
Out of the Box Data Engineering: Events in Heterogeneous Data: Invited Talk at International Conference on Data Engineering, Bangalore, India on March 7, 2003.
Multimedia Information Systems: Technology and Applications, at MIR2003 in Darmstadt Germany, on January 31, 2003
Semantics in Multimedia Systems; Keynote talk at International Conference on Multi-Media Modelling, Taipei, January 8-10, 2003.
Folk Computing for Bridging Digital Divide; given as a distinguished speaker, Tata Infotech Symposium, August 6, Mumbai India. 
 TeleExperience: Communicating Compelling Experience; Keynote talk at ACM Multimedia 2001




By Ramesh |
    				October 20, 2005 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← White Papers
Teaching →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


