https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/google-hires








Google Hires … – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Google Hires …    			


The news that Google hired Vint Cerf has resulted in lots of speculations about what they are upto.  Now a days every announcement by Google does that — they are the most watched company.
I am not surprised about the trajectory that Google is following — interestingly this is very similar to Microsoft.  Once a company is flush with money and has the leadership position in INdustry, they start building a strong research lab.  This was happening at in the last century — AT&T, GM, IBM, Microsoft — and continues happening in this century.  In most cases, people like Vint Cerf are brought on board not because there is a specific plan but because these people can shape long term agenda.
It is nice that Google has started building that.  USA needs strong research labs and hopefully Google will build one of the best — they have resources and seem to have the ambition.



By Ramesh |
    				September 9, 2005 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Experiential Education
Moving from San Diego to Irvine →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


