https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/murdoch-in-internet-media








Murdoch in Internet Media – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Murdoch in Internet Media    			


Mr. Murdoch is getting into the game that had three major players: Yahoo, Microsoft, and Google.  As an article in NYT says:
Mr. Murdoch has been particularly concerned about younger audiences spending less time reading newspapers and watching television, while spending more time online and embracing such features as interactivity and virtual communities.
Both Mr. Chernin and Mr. Murdoch are now spending much of their time on Internet strategy, though the Internet represented a small fraction of the company’s $23.8 billion in annual revenues last year. Having made his career by taking on established players, Mr. Murdoch enjoys the disruptive nature of the Internet, News Corporation executives say.
Diller bought Ask Jeeves, Time Warner has been in this space,  and Comcast has been talking about entering the space.  All these suggest that the nature of media is really changing and finally the so called digital convergence is really here.   Murdoch’s serious intent in this space is something that the current Internet players will be seriously watching, I believe.



By Ramesh |
    				September 10, 2005 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Moving from San Diego to Irvine
Confusing Cultural Diversity →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


