https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/sitting-among-packed-boxes








Sitting among packed boxes – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Sitting among packed boxes    			


Finally the day has arrived.  I am sitting among packed boxes.  Most of the things are already packed in our house.  Tomorrow morning the rest will be packed.
This week will change lots of things for me. 
Our home will be changed — from San Diego to Irvine.
Neil is getting his apartment and though he lived last two years in Santa Barbara, but this is the first time we feel that he is really moving out of the home.
My office furniture is finally arriving tomorrow — so far I was living with temporary furniture and hence was never settled.
So by next week, I will be starting the next term at Irvine in a really new setting.
Leaving behind so many friend and family members one hour away is a bit saddening, but the gaining some stability after about 4-5 years of maintaining two residences, is very satisfying.  I am looking forward to that.



By Ramesh |
    				September 12, 2005 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Confusing Cultural Diversity
New house — filled with boxes →



			One thought on “Sitting among packed boxes”		




Arun September 13, 2005 at 4:23 am 

Congratulations! Here’s wishing you all the happiness that a home brings with it. Amongst the many people who will be keen to see you in your new home, count me as one. Post a picture soon — and don’t forget to let us know the view.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


