https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/privacy-preserving-cameras








Privacy preserving cameras – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Privacy preserving cameras    			


Privacy is a big issue in modern technology.  It is interesting that the two things that are very popular topics among users of technology — and not that popular necessarily among the developers of technology — are privacy preservation and security of environment.  These two things are not necessarily compatible — in fact in many situation they are at odds with each other.
In any case, there was an interesting announcement of a technology that will block people from taking your pictures or pictures in your environment.  You can read the detailes on this in a News.com article. This technology, obviously yet in research stage at Georgia Institute of Technology, recognizes presence of a camera using retroreflective property of camera lenses and then projects light beams to spoil the pictures like the radar beams used in defense applications.
Whether this technology will become commercial or not — only time will tell.  At this stage there is a big gap between the lab prototype and making it practical.  But the fact that such technology is getting developed is an interesting demonstration of how technology cycle progresses — a technical solution is required to block use of (or abuse of — depending on your perspective) technology.



By Ramesh |
    				September 19, 2005 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← New house — filled with boxes
Getting back to routine →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


