https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/getting-back-to-routine








Getting back to routine – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Getting back to routine    			


It is amazing what becomes important in our life.  Until I got connected from home using my cable modem, I did not feel settled.  That was the moment when I started feeling that now life is becoming normal.  In this respect, moving in a house is much worse than moving in an apartment or in a condo.  When I moved in my condo more than two years ago, I found out that until I get my own connectivity, I could hitch a ride (without asking like a parasite) on some neighbor’s wireless network.  In this house, I could not get any connectivity.  I saw three networks but one was too weak to be useful and the other two were secured.
In any case, there is some place to walk in the house now and hopefully by this weekend, things will be close to normal.
It is definitely very nice to feel that I have only one house.  And it appears that Irvine is really a very nice place to live.  University Hills are very peaceful and we have all facilities very close.  The only thing that I have not explored yet are the beaches where I can go for regular nice walks.  Will try to find one this week end.



By Ramesh |
    				September 22, 2005 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Privacy preserving cameras
Destinator →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


