https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/what-is-the-your-business








What is the your business? – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				What is the your business?    			


In business world, in fact in every other situation also, a very important thing to know is what is the business you are in.  I saw this interesting article — via Rajesh Jain — from Broadband Directions  that suggests that Comcast should buy AOL.  It asks a very intersting, but obvious question, what is the business of Comcast.
Changing how Comcast competes requires it to broaden its vision of what business it is in. With all of its cable TV-centric deal-making, Comcast must be wary not to fall into the trap of thinking it is still mainly in the cable TV business. Those days are past. And like the railroads of old which didn’t recognize that they were no longer in the railroad business, but rather in the broader transportation business, Comcast and other MSOs need to recognize that they now compete in a world well beyond cable TV and which is increasingly broadband- centric.
I believe this viewpoint would result in Comcast embracing online media and communications as a key driver of its competitive differentiation. While advanced TV-based services like VOD, HD and DVR are all important in providing more value on the cable TV side (and in competing with DBS), it is more apparent with each passing day that TV is no longer the center of the universe for many consumers, particularly younger ones. 
This is a very important shift that is taking place and it appears that many traditional companies are going to be a casualty like in the past.



By Ramesh |
    				September 26, 2005 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Close to normal at home
Immersive Search →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


