https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/death-to-folders








Death to Folders – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Death to Folders    			


With the increasing popularity of desk top search the limitations of current hierarchical file system are becoming obvious and painful to users.  Before people experienced desk top search, they did not realize how it could be without folders — not they know that the current folder system in which a file belongs to only one folder is limiting.
A report in Economist.com addresses this topic.  It points out
But the once-revolutionary notion of files, folders, filing cabinets and other desktop icons is now showing its age. What started out as a helpful metaphor now seems rather limiting. Why hobble digital documents with the limitations of paper ones, such as the need to have a single fixed location? 
Interestingly, in a few years we will be talking about text tags in the same way.  We would be wondering how could we manage search of images, video, audio, and other non-text documents (if we can call them documents) using text tags.  But that is still afew years ahead.



By Ramesh |
    				September 28, 2005 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Teaching Entrepreneurism
Is this true about we Indians? →



			3 thoughts on “Death to Folders”		




Marco Bertini January 9, 2006 at 5:21 am 

Perhaps folders can be considered as tags, when using a desktop search engines. 
E.g. I’m using Copernic (http://www.copernic.com/), and the file path is used as well as the file name when searching. In a certain sense it is as a tag, if I save a file in Papers/conference/ACM Multimedia, when searching for “some  keywords + conference” helps me in retrieving the keywords that belong to a document “tagged” as a conference paper, and I may further restrict search to that specific conference rather than finding a project proposal. The problem is that it yet an implicit tag.








Ramesh  Post authorJanuary 10, 2006 at 9:50 am 

That id definitely true.








Leading August 12, 2007 at 10:19 pm 

Technology is changing our lives every day.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


