https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/verbs-and-nouns-on-the-web








Verbs and Nouns on the Web – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Verbs and Nouns on the Web    			


John Gehl and Suzanne Douglas write about the verbs and nouns on the Web:
While yesterday’s Web activities focused on browsing, clicking and
reading, today’s Web is all about doing: sharing, socializing,
collaborating and, most of all, creating. “The Web isn’t so much a place
anymore,” says Ross Mayfield, CEO of Socialtext, which helps clients create
collaborative sites called wikis. “They Google, Flickr, blog, contribute to
Wikipedia, Socialtext it, Meetup, post, subscribe, feed, annotate, and
above all share. In other words, the Web is increasingly less about places
and other nouns, but verbs.” The shift is being driven by the emergence of
Internet technologies such as Really Simple Syndication (RSS), used for
blogging, and programming technologies such as Ajax, designed to make Web
applications almost as fast as traditional desktop programs. In addition,
new software called Greasemonkey allows non-techies to add mini-programs
that customize the way a particular Web site looks and works on the
browser. For instance, by installing Greasemonkey’s Book Burro add-on,
users perusing books on Amazon will see a price list for that book on other
sites. “Applications are no longer software artifacts,” says Tim O’Reilly,
head of O’Reilly Media. “They’re ongoing services.” (Business Week 26 Sep 2005)

All search engines are currently dominated by nouns.  The text processing steps to get to inverted file index ignore everything but ‘core’ of nouns.  It is refreshing to think that the role of verbs is increasing on the Web.



By Ramesh |
    				October 6, 2005 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Yahoo acquires Upcoming.org
Ubiquitous City →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


