https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/grand-challenge-for-ai








Grand Challenge — for AI – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Grand Challenge — for AI    			


Artificial intelligence has always been a field which goes though wild swings.  People either pin lots of (unreasonable) expectations on it or blame it for (unsupportable) hype.  The fact remains that AI is an intellectual discupline that addresses some challenging problems.  Like any other field, there is good research in it and there is bad research.  What is different about AI, compared to other disciplines, is the fact that it addresses issues related to human intelligence.  Since human intelligence is one of the least understood but the most important human feature that has made us what we are in the ‘live’ world; people get excited about it.
DARPA recently conducted a grand challenge race for autonomous vehicles in the desert of Nevads.  This has been attracting lots of headlines and people have been calling it a test of AI.  It does have AI component, but it is equally strong engineering challenge.  In any case, the race is over and it was more successful than similar previous races.  For more details, see for example, an article in NYT.



By Ramesh |
    				October 9, 2005 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Ubiquitous City
All the world’s information!!! →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


