https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/all-the-worlds-information








All the world’s information!!! – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				All the world’s information!!!    			


Google’s mission is to make all the world’s information searchable.  Eric Scmidt says that  there is  5 Million terabytes of information in the world of which 170 terabytes has been indexed.  He projects that it will take 300 years to index all the world’s information.  Since I don’t know all the detailed calculations required in arriving to 5 Million Terabytes, I am just curious how correct this number is.  Also, what is the assumption made about all the world’s information.
Is all the world’s information like BaseBall World Series in which only North American baseball teams participate?  So, does the world’s information only contains written and digitized information developed in developed countries?  Does it contain live information being generated by more than 6 Billion people and soon trillions of sensors?  Or does it contain only information that has been abstracted for specific applications by mediators of different kind?  Does this number contain all evolving and accumulated information or only condensed and abstracted information that is considered time-tasted and useful?
In fact, I have always wondered about this mission statement — All the World’s information.  Maybe one requires this kind of vagueness to motivate people to be addressing ever-evolving and ever-changing goals and making sure that even when the ‘real goal’ is not achieved, one could announce the project to be successful.



By Ramesh |
    				October 9, 2005 |
    				             		Prospecting Information |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Grand Challenge — for AI
eventful.com →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


