https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/thin-mobile-clients








Thin Mobile Clients – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Thin Mobile Clients    			


In the Entrpreneurism class today, there was discussion on what applications of mobile computing could emerge and will be attractive as new products.  Most conventional ideas were presented by students and discussed.  The one that we are going to explore is the ‘Thin Mobile Clients’.  The idea is simple and elegant:  Give evolving phones with all kinds of sensors, processing, and storage how to make them compelling Thin Clients so these devices could become the next platform for all applications.  This is going to be exciting.  We will discuss all aspects of building this into a product.  Including its functionality and how could it be used for regular applications like word processing and spreadsheet.  Another very exciting aspect of this client would be its potential to take it to 6 Billion consumers rather than the current 900Million consumers of the PC.  I find this more attractive client than the currently popular idea of $100 client.



By Ramesh |
    				October 17, 2005 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Experiencing Sports using Technology
Search Steering Wheel →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


