https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/research-areas








Research Areas – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Research Areas    			


Ramesh has been an active researcher in multimedia information systems, image databases, machine vision, and intelligent systems. While professor of computer science and engineering at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor and the University of California, San Diego, he founded and directed artificial intelligence and visual computing labs. He was also the founding Editor-in-Chief of IEEE MultiMedia magazine and Machine Vision and Applications journal and serves on the editorial boards of several magazines in multimedia, business and image and vision processing. He has co-authored more than 250 research papers in well-respected journals and conference proceedings. Among his co-authored and co-edited books include Machine Vision, a textbook used at several universities.
Ramesh founded three companies, managed them in initial stages, and then turned them over to professional management. Most recently, he was the co-founder of PRAJA inc located in San Diego, which was acquired by Tibco inc. Prior to PRAJA, he was the founding CEO and Chairman of Virage (NASD: VRGE), a San Mateo-based company developing systems for media management solutions and visual information management. He was also the Founder and Chairman of ImageWare Inc., that provided solutions for surface modeling, reverse engineering, rapid prototyping, and inspection. ImageWare was acquired by SDRC.
He enjoys working with companies, is involved in research, and enjoys writing. His current research is in experiential systems and their applications.



By Ramesh |
    				October 20, 2005 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Search Steering Wheel
Computer Vision →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


