https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/about-ramesh








Ramesh Jain – Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation



Entrepreneur



Researcher



Teacher



 



 



    				About Ramesh    			


Ramesh has been an active researcher in Computer Vision, Artificial Intelligence, Multimedia Computing, Experiential computing, and Digital Health. While at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, he founded and directed artificial intelligence laboratory in 1987; and at University of California, San Diego, he founded visual computing lab in 1995.  At University of California, Irvine, He is founding director of UCI Institute for Future Health. He was also the founding Editor-in-Chief of IEEE MultiMedia magazine and Machine Vision and Applications journal.  His co-authored and co-edited books include two text books: Machine Vision (published in 1995), and Multimedia Computing (published in 2014). Ramesh has been elected Fellow of ACM, IEEE, AAAS, IAPR, AAAI, and SPIE. He is the recipient of several awards including the ACM SIGMM Technical Achievement Award 2010. His current research is in building computing and data-driven Navigational approaches for Future Health.  He is Chief Technical Advisor for building Open Source Personal Health Navigator Project at Peng Cheng Laboratory in Shenzhen.
Ramesh co-founded multiple companies, managed them in initial stages, and then turned them over to professional management.  He enjoys working with companies, is involved in research, and enjoys writing.
Recently IEEE TCMC announced him to be the winner of Impact award for his “pioneering and wide-spread impact to multimedia computing for the past four decades.”
Coming Events:

Keynote Talk at Nutrition 2020: May 30-June 2, 2020, Seattle, WA USA.
Keynote talk at ACM ICMR: What Should I do?, June 9-11, 2020, Dublin, Ireland.

Vision, Passion, and Current Research is described in: A Navigational Approach to Health;  in IEEE Computer Magazine. April 2019.
RECENT:
Multimodal Health Surveillance: Keynote Talk at ACM Multimedia Asia, Beijing, 2019.
Eat, Drink, and be Happy: Invited talk at MADiMa, Oct 21, ACM Multimedia, Nice France 2019. [Slides]
 Digital Health As A Service Symposium: Opportunities Created by Digitalization of Life and Health,  Keynote; July 12-13 2019, Milan Italy.
Future of Computing and Food; Keynote Talk; Kyoto, Japan, March 28, 2019.
IEEE Web Intelligence 2018; Keynote Talk; Santiago Chile, December 4, 2018
15th IEEE Int. Conf on Advanced Video and Signal Based Surveillance; Keynote Talk; Oct 27, 2018
Fourth India Science Festival; Keynote in Global Indian Science and Technology Stakeholders; Lucknow, India;  Oct 5, 2018.
IEEE MIPR 2018; Keynote Talk; Miami, Florida, April 10,  2018
INTERVIEW:  ACM SigMM Records, Issue 2, 2017.
Video Profile: Ramesh Jain – Father of Multimedia.
International Interview Published: Ramesh Jain Interview for Chinese Professional Organization. CCCF Magazine April 2015















Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 





