https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/google-of-tv








Google of TV – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Google of TV    			


Everybody wants to be Google of Something.  And why not?  Google is so successful — even today its shares jumped up by about 10% to an unbelievable number — compared to any other company in the space.
So I was not surprised when I read — via John Battelle’s blog — in Chicago Tribune that 
For Comcast Corp. Chief Executive Brian Roberts, the key challenge in today’s digital video world is how to become the Google of television.
But then so does every cable and telephone company — yes telephone companies too.  Interestingly we are hearing this from several people, including Mr Roberts, this for some time but I have not seen any real movement by cable companies in that direction.  Maybe it is really difficult for Elephants to turn their direction — I know this from the big size Mover trucks who take their time and space to turn.  Agility is definitely not their strength and it appears to be true for big companies also.



By Ramesh |
    				October 21, 2005 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Perspectives on the NextGenWeb
Folk Events and MobileTV →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


