https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/indieflix-2








IndieFlix – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				IndieFlix    			


With the increasing popularity of video on the Web, an interesting new business and service is emerging.  This report in NYT describes this business.
Directors submit their films, which are then posted on the Web site (www.indieflix.com). When users log on and click to buy the films that capture their interest, IndieFlix burns them onto a DVD and ships them out. The price for a feature-length film is $9.95.
Ms. Andreen’s motto: “Own a movie for less than a movie ticket.”
…
IndieFlix represents “a platform to present their work to an audience that under normal circumstances wouldn’t be available to them,” said the actress Whoopi Goldberg, who is on the company’s advisory board. “As one who works inside and outside the system, I’ve come to understand the distribution is a key component. And from a purely economical standpoint, if there’s a way for folks to participate” it would be “a win-win for everybody involved.” But Peter Broderick, president of the Los Angeles-based Paradigm Consulting and a longtime adviser to distributors and filmmakers, cautioned that price really doesn’t have much to do, he said, with the attraction of buyers to on-line indie films.
Like blogs opened doors for citizen journalism, this may open doors for citizen movies.  But there is a major hurdle in that — good video editing software.  Most current video editing systems are too difficult for normal people to use.  What is required are video editing systems that could be as easy to use as the currend word processing systems are.



By Ramesh |
    				October 23, 2005 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Folk Events and MobileTV
Living in Virtual World →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


