https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/terrible-state-of-search-engines








Terrible state of search engines – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Terrible state of search engines    			


“Internet search engines are still in a terrible state compared to where they could be.”
I am definitely very happy to hear these words from Bill Gates.  He further added:
“This is a situation that we hope will change for the better in the next six months. We are working on it, as are other companies, such as Google and Yahoo,” Gates added in comments that were translated into Hebrew.
Search engines are an important part of our cyber life and do affect our physical life also a lot.  It is clear, however, that the current obsession with all semantics coming from Keywords and organizing search primarily based on keywords is very limited.  Everybody knows this but it seems that most companies, including Microsoft are interested in incremental approaches to improve on using keywords in the first place.  This may in fact be the most serious problem with the search.  Interestingly even the Folksonomy is evolving based purly on keywords.
I do hope that in researchers are looking at getting out of the keyword box because without that search engines will remain in their first stage.
Maybe this is a great oppoetunity for budding entrepreneurs.



By Ramesh |
    				October 26, 2005 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Death of Databases
Video or  Photo →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


