https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/first-day-at-acm-multimedia








First Day at ACM Multimedia – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				First Day at ACM Multimedia    			


ACM Multimedia 2005 started at the Hilton in Singapore.  About 350 researchers in multimedia are attending this premier research conference in multimedia.   
This year I find more papers on Multimedia compared to only on one media.  This is a good trend.  Hopefully it continues.  Some people did come to me and commented that they used to think earlier only about (say) audi, but now they think about audio and other information.
Some other trends that were clear on the first day: context is getting more attention, metadata remains a buzz word, network of video and other sensors is coming to main stream, multimedia search remains the most popular topic but it is clear that it remains a difficult task, academia seems to be getting more influenced by the folksonomy culture than it was a year ago, learning based approaches remain popular.
It is always nice hear vision talks from industry.  The keynote here was from NHK and presented a nice futurisitic view of the nature of revolutions taking place in Broadcasting (at Japan Broadcasting corp).  Again, there was an emphasis on tags.
It is always nice to meet frinds and this conference is one of the friendliest places for me — afterall I am the Sig Multimedia Chair so have many friends here.
See photos at Flickr.



By Ramesh |
    				November 8, 2005 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Going to ACM Multimedia 2005
Second Day at ACM Multimedia →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


