https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/video-sharing








Video sharing – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Video sharing    			


More sites for video sharing are starting to appear on web.
Big players — Google, Yahoo, and Microsoft — are getting in this space and so are start-ups.  Cable companies have been talking about this space from traditional media perspective.  It is interesting to see other players jump into this space.
This is important trend because this encourages people to express their concepts and experiences using more powerful (some may argue with this) medium of video.
One question that I don’t know the answer and it would help to know is — how easy are the current video production — capture to editing to posting — techniques for average users.  This is important in making video as a popular media.



By Ramesh |
    				November 10, 2005 |
    				             		Experiential Computing, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Third day at ACM Multimedia
Workshops at ACM Multimedia →



			One thought on “Video sharing”		




I like sharing videos February 16, 2009 at 6:07 am 

Hi,
Video sharing is all the rage since a while now, and it does not seem to end. Everybody wants to share their videos, their passions and the things they like. There are so many sites around to publish videos on the web that it is sometimes hard to make a choice. We know some of the big players on the market like YouTube, Revver or Dailymotion, but there are so many others competing to be the number one, or targeting a specific audience, be it geographically (China, Japan, Turkey…), by language (German, Arabic, French…) or for the kind of content they focus on (cooking, planes, extreme sports…).
I have compiled a growing list of more than 1,000 video sharing sites, video search engines, video download sites, and video publication and statistics online services that you can check at http://www.ilikesharingvideos.com
For each of them, you will get useful information such as their history, the country from which most of their visitors come, their niche, their rank, their latest news…
This site offers some other interesting features, like a forum about online videos, how to make money with your videos, how to create your own YouTube site, video contests, etc.
So if you are interested in video sharing or online video marketing, give an eye to this site, it worths it.
Cheers







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


