http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/labtutors






ICS 193 Course Reference





Spring Quarter 2018 — Information and Computer Sciences — UC Irvine
Lab Tutor Seminar (ICS 193)
COURSE REFERENCE
Instructors: David G. Kay (kay@uci.edu), 5056 Donald Bren Hall; Rich Pattis (pattis@uci.edu), 4062 Donald Bren Hall
Tutor coordinators: Sui Feng Xu (sfxu@uci.edu), and Kenny Nguyen (kennyqn@uci.edu). Jointly we're reachable at tutors@ics.uci.edu.
Meeting time and place: Tuesdays 2:00 to 3:20 in MSTB 118. We expect to skip a few meetings later in the quarter; stay tuned to Email and Piazza for the final determination.
Course requirements: It's simple: Everyone can get an A who performs professionally. Unprofessional things (like missing scheduled lab sessions or missing the ICS 193 meetings or not preparing and editing some teaching materials [see below]) will lower the grade and pretty quickly result in a tutor not being asked  to be a tutor any more. Of course real emergencies come up (but normal academic obligations like midterms and projects aren't real emergencies; you can plan around them); in a real emergency, contact the coordinators and the TA of your section as soon as you possibly can. 
To reiterate: Every tutor is expected to show up to each assigned lab session, to attend each scheduled meeting of ICS 193 [or make alternative arrangement with the coordinators in case of a class conflict], and to prepare and submit and edit some teaching materials as described below.
Topics to be covered in ICS 193 meetings: Primarily we will discuss issues that have come up or may come up in your tutoring. We will talk some about computer science curricula and teaching in general, and we will also cover relevant aspects of Python and other computer science principles. Refer frequently to the Lab Tutor Guide, http://www..ics.uci.edu/~kay/labtutor.html
Lsb tutor name tags: Each tutor will receive a photo badge and lanyard to wear in the lab whenever you're on duty. This helps the students pick out the tutors and know their tutors' names so they can fill out evaluation forms accurately. (You want this so we can write something accurate when you ask us for a recommendation letter.) Wearing your lanyard and name badge isn't optional. There will be hooks on the wall in each lab room; you can leave your lanyard and badge there in between shifts. The lanyards aren't souvenirs; we need them back at the end of the quarter.
Resources for tutors: This syllabus (with all its hyperlinks) is available on line at http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/labtutors/193.w18.html. There are other useful resources on David Kay's Teaching in ICS page.
We're making heavy use of forums at Piazza.com this quarter (for tutors, as well as for the students). This is a site where questions can be posted and answers can be created collaboratively, wiki-style, both by other students in the class and by instructors.

Posting answers for students: Some or all of ICS 31/32/32A/33/45C/45J/46/51/53 will have Piazza groups. You should go ahead and add yourself as students to the course(s) you'll be tutoring for, and as time permits, feel free to answer students' postings. Just remember three things: (a) It's better to say nothing than to post something wrong; recovering from incorrect postings is like putting toothpaste back in the tube. (b) Hundreds of students will read what you post, so you want to be sure you don't confuse more people than you help. If the questioner has done something an unusual way, preface your response with something like, "There are other ways to do this; nobody should adopt this approach if they have another approach that's working for them." (c) TAs have a little leeway to clarify assignment requirements for their own sections. So if a student asks, "Do we have to handle the X case?", the answer for that student may not be the same as it was for you when you took the course. If the answer isn't clearly written in the problem specification you should tell them to check with their own TA. (d) Finally, be careful about posting code that actually solves the lab problems; give examples of similar usage or something, but don't write all of the students' code for them. [This is more of an issue after the first couple of weeks; early in the course, it's appropriate to be more concrete.]
Posting questions and answers about tutoring: ICS 193 also has a Piazza group where you can post questions and observations about tutoring. You can use it to ask things you'd otherwise have to postpone to the next week's ICS 193 class meeting. There's just one thing: If you're tutoring for ICS 32, realize that some of the ICS 31 tutors are students in ICS 32 this quarter. It's not appropriate to post solutions or approaches to the ICS 32 lab problems (or identifiable references to ICS 32 students) on the main ICS 193 Piazza group; it would deprive the ICS 32 students who are ICS 31 tutors of the opportunity to work it out for themselves (and especially since they're the strongest students, they should have that opportunity). The same goes for ICS 33 tutors not posting to the main ICS 193 group information that ICS 33 students who are ICS 31 or 32 tutors shouldn't see. But there's a solution: ICS 32 tutors have been added to the "ICS 32 Section" of the ICS 193 class on Piazza and likewise for ICS 33 tutors and an "ICS 33 Section". General tutoring issues, everyone should post and answer in the main ICS 193 Piazza group. But ICS 32 tutors who want to discuss sensitive ICS 32 issues should have those discussions in the ICS 32 Section, which is visible only to members (and likewise for ICS 33, 45C, and 45J).

Resources by tutors: As you know, ICS 193 must exist to give tutors units for tutoring; moreover, ICS 193 has to be enough like an academic course so that when the program is eventually reviewed, nobody will object that we're giving units away for nonacademic purposes. At the same time, we'd like ICS 193 to be valuable and stimulating for you as tutors and helpful in making you more effective tutors, thereby improving the students' experience. 
Rather than having just a weekly seminar meeting, we'll cancel the meeting some weeks and instead ask each tutor to design some teaching materials (that will help students with skills and concepts you've observed they need help with). This is all experimental, so any of the "rules" below can be altered if there's a good reason. 
Basic requirement: During the quarter, each tutor will produce one set of "teaching materials" and will review and edit at least two sets of materials written by other tutors (so that each item is reviewed at least twice). First-time tutors may skip the production part and just edit two or three sets of other materials. 
Quality control: We do two reviews of each item because eventually we will post them in the "Resources" section of the tutors.ics.uci.edu site. That means they have to be clear and grammatical, using correct CS terminology, with fully tested code, following good programming style—in short, as close to perfect as possible. Eventually we'll have a rich resource we can direct students to. Another upside is that you get the glory of seeing your name as the author of the published items. 
Teaching materials can be exercises, programming problems, focused explanations of specific topics, illustrations, animations, summary tables, videos, games, or anything else that might help a student learn a topic in the course you're tutoring for. We're thinking mostly of text-based programming exercises, but if you think a more unconventional form will help you get your point across, go right ahead. 
Stay tuned for logistical and administrative details. 


David G. Kay, kay@uci.edu 
Monday, March 30, 2015 5:04 PM 


