https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/information-assimilation-using-wikis-and-maps








Information Assimilation Using Wikis and Maps – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Information Assimilation Using Wikis and Maps    			


There is a novel approach for information assimilation emerging through Wikis and using Maps.  this approach allows citizen reporters and other interested people to enter information through Wikis on Maps.  It was demonstrated for some of the disasters like Katrina.  You can see and explore this here.
This is a good indicator of things to come.  Currently it is being done for Katrina, but soon one can expect this to progress along two important directions.  First this approach could be extended easily to provide situation assesment during disaster situation by colecting not only reports and updates like the one shown here but also photos, videos, and other information to update what is really happening there.
Another interesting direction for this to evolve will be to build good maps for emerging countries that are currently not supported by mapquest or navteq like companies.  This maps, or wikimaps, will provide resources in developing countries like India where currently there is no such resource available from an organized business unit.  
Technology needs just some extensions, what is really required are some innovative and energetic business people.



By Ramesh |
    				November 15, 2005 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism, Prospecting Information |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Industry support for Academia
Tags give human meaning →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


