https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/us-innovation-slowing-down








US Innovation Slowing down – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				US Innovation Slowing down    			


Many people are talking about the innovation crisis faced by the long time leader in Innovation — the USA.  As reported in NYT by Timothy O’Brien  this is becoming a serious issue — some important excerpts from the article are:
The Industrial Research Institute, an organization in Arlington, Va., that represents some of the nation’s largest corporations, is also concerned that the academic and financial support for scientific innovation is lagging in the United States. The group’s most recent data indicate that from 1986 to 2001, China, Taiwan, South Korea and Japan all awarded more doctoral degrees in science and engineering than did the United States. Between 1991 and 2003, research and development spending in America trailed that of China, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan – in China’s case by billions of dollars.
…
“We need to bring the view back in this country that we’re willing to make investments for the future because everything that’s in the cellphone and the iPod today was known 20 years ago,” he said. “I think scientists and inventors are a very peculiar breed in that we’re not in it for the money – we’re in it for the knowledge.”
…
“I think I’ve had more failures than successes, but I don’t see the failures as mistakes because I always learned something from those experiences,” Mr. West said. “I see them as having not achieved the initial goal, nothing more than that.”



By Ramesh |
    				November 16, 2005 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Tags give human meaning
Enterprise search is not for Google →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


