https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/total-recall-an-echronicle








Total Recall — an eChronicle – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Total Recall — an eChronicle    			


MyLifeBits project by Gordon Bell has received good media attention from its early days.  There is a nice article in the latest issue of Spectrum on this project.
If privacy is your overriding concern, MyLifeBits may not be for you. But if managing the details of a full and hectic life is a problem, the benefits of the system would be undeniable. Who was that venture capitalist you sat next to on that trans-Atlantic flight last year? Where is that Web site with a schematic and parts list for a radio-controlled clock? You saw it a few weeks ago. Which little hotel in Hong Kong did your brother-in-law recommend? What was that nice wine at the sales-meeting dinner last June? Countless details such as these, some pivotal, others trivial, could be as easy to call up as the names in that dog-eared address book. 
The basic idea of objective logging surrounding you and providing an environment to access information is useful in many applications.  This area is likely to emerge as an interesting application in many different forms.



By Ramesh |
    				November 21, 2005 |
    				             		Prospecting Information |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← A site combining Taxonomy and Folksonomy
Video games in Academia →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


