https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/video-games-in-academia








Video games in Academia – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Video games in Academia    			


NYT reports on the growth of courses and programs on video games in academia
Three decades after bursting into pool halls and living rooms, video games are taking a place in academia. A handful of relatively obscure vocational schools have long taught basic game programming. But in the last few years a small but growing cadre of well-known universities, from the University of Southern California to the University of Central Florida, have started formal programs in game design and the academic study of video games as a slice of contemporary culture.
Traditionalists in both education and the video game industry pooh-pooh the trend, calling it a bald bid by colleges to cash in on a fad. But others believe that video games – which already rival movie tickets in sales – are poised to become one of the dominant media of the new century. 
Certainly, the burgeoning game industry is famished for new talent. And now, universities are stocked with both students and young faculty members who grew up with joystick in hand. And some educators say that studying games will soon seem no less fanciful than going to film school or examining the cultural impact of television.
Video games do offer one very attractive technology in addition to some mentioned in the article.  The interfaces used in video games are very immersive kind and are the best example of experiential environments.  These interfaces are learnt effortlessly by people from extremely disparate backgrounds.  These interfaces can teach many things to designers.  Particularly with the popularity of mobile phones as primary clients for internet access, the role of these interfaces will become increasingly important.  When a grandmother living in a remote village in India wants to connect with the her grandchildren in USA using Internet, the interfaces better be in the same class — if not better — than those used in video games.  They should be easy to use and fun to interact.  And yes, there will be NO Keyboard use at all.  I hope that that trensd is emphasized in some of these courses.



By Ramesh |
    				November 22, 2005 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Total Recall — an eChronicle
Visual search on mobile phones →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


