https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/folk-computing-or-100-computer








Folk Computing or $100 Computer – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Folk Computing or $100 Computer    			


Nirmal Sethia has an interesting perspective on IT for emerging countries or for the bottom of the pyramid (BOP).  Recently there is good amount of media attention to Negroponte’s $100 computer for poor people.  A question many people are asking is whether such an approach based on price is the long term solution.  He argued (and I could not object to his argument for an obvious reason) that such approaches are talking about developing a folk computer and are not in line with what I called a few years ago folk computing.  Folk computing is an approach to computing that is about bringing functionality that will allow people from every background to reap the benefits of information technology.  Folk computing is a process; it is an approach; it is a long term solution to what these people really need and could use.  Many approaches based on the cost are more concerned with taking the current technology supposedly successful in the developed western (or near western) world and putting it in the hands of (poor) masses in different developing countries.
A popular saying comes to mind: Give a man a fish and he will not be hungry for a day; teach a man fishing and he will never be hungry.
Developing computing approaches that will be less dependent on a specific language, ability of using keyboard, and on literacy level of users is essential to bringing benefits of computing to masses in Africa, India, China, and many other countries.  And most approaches to bring $100 computer are focused on taking current computing and infrastructure and somehow reducing the price of the device.  This assumption does not appear right.  What is needed is to develop not only the device but complete infrastructure that will let so called bottom of pyramid people to benefit from it because that will be for them.  For content it is easy to see that content for a group of people is best prepared by that same group.  If we just provide a device the problem is not solved.
So it is nice to try to develop $100 folk computer but it will be better to develop folk computing.
The difficulty is that it is easy to develop a $100 computer.  It is a product with well defined goal.  Folk computing is an approach to computing that will be slow to evolve and will require persistent efforts by people from different backgrounds.  Nirmal Sethia’s suggestion on this is to build a network of peole interested in this and let networking be put into action.  It does sound like an interesting approach.



By Ramesh |
    				November 27, 2005 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		4 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Now laptops getting phone
Cyber-hugs →



			4 thoughts on “Folk Computing or $100 Computer”		




Vasudev Ram December 10, 2005 at 6:44 am 

I agree with your points. Not taking a holistic approach often does not give the desired results. – Vasudev.








Dave August 24, 2007 at 4:24 am 

Yeah, some good points made, however there are always two sides to a story so I’m not sure I completly agree.








tapety November 27, 2007 at 9:35 pm 

It is good that someone writes articles which really matters something. Thank you for this article, it’s full of knowledge which is hard to find in tons of rubbish in our famous world wide web. Regards and good luck!








Zander S. March 29, 2008 at 2:29 am 

Its unfortunate that the price-tag keeps rising above $100, and the feature set keeps declining- such as the lack of a manual crank.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


