http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/ask.html






What To Ask The Instructor







What to Ask the Instructor

When you get an assignment as a TA or reader, the
first thing  to do is get in touch with the instructor of
the course.  You will need to find out what the instructor expects you to
do, make sure there aren't any insurmountable scheduling conflicts,
and begin to prepare for your teaching assignment.

In advance — There are some things you can
find out  by yourself in advance:


When and where does the class meet?


When and where do the discussion and lab sections
meet?
Check these using the on-line schedule of  classes
(http://websoc.reg.uci.edu);
times and rooms often change, and sometimes
as late as the first week of classes.
Do the lectures or sections conflict with your own classes or other obligations? You may need to make adjustments once you know what your TA duties involve.


How has this instructor (or other instructors) organized
this course in the past?
Most instructors' home pages have links to syllabi
(and sometimes other materials) for the courses they teach.  A few minutes
spent looking at these will give you a good outline of the course's
organization (though of course things may change from one quarter to the
next).



Asking the instructor — The questions listed
here apply to a broad range of courses and go into some detail.  You shouldn't
expect the instructor to provide absolute, definitive answers to all of
these questions.  It's impossible to predict every task that may need
doing during the quarter, and it's important to be flexible as the needs
of the class become clearer over time.  Instructors may prefer to let you
resolve some of these issues yourself, or in consultation with other TAs
or readers for the course.  Nonetheless, the sooner you get answers to any
of these questions, the better you can plan and prepare and the better you
can balance your teaching responsibilities with your other obligations.


Attending lecture:  Do you prefer or require that
I attend the lectures?  Will you need me to help set up equipment or demonstrations
for the lectures?


Discussion and lab sections



Which section meeting(s) will I be expected to lead
      (if this hasn't already been specified)?
 

If there are section meetings on the schedule before the
      first lecture, do you want me to hold section meetings then?


What do you want students to get out of the section
      meetings?  Is there new material I should cover; should I give them advice
      on the assignments; should I answer questions and give them practice with
      the course topics?
 

How much guidance on the assignments should I give
      students in section or individually?  How far should I go in leading them
      towards a solution?


Shall I take attendance at section meetings?  Does
      attendance count towards a student's grade?




Student enrollment:  Will you need me to take any
role in processing requests of students to add or drop the course (or specific
sections)?


Office hours and student communication



How many office hours per week would you suggest
      I schedule?


Will we have a course mailing list (e.g., through
      EEE or Canvas) for sending messages to the class?
 

Will we have a mail alias for students that will
      deliver messages to the instructor and all the TAs?
 

Will we have a course newsgroup or EEE MessageBoard or Piazza group?


What would you like my role to be with these communications
      channels?
 

Would you like me to schedule review sessions for
      the midterm or final exam?




Grading assignments



Which assignments will I be grading?  Will there
      be a prepared answer key?  What rubric or grading standards should I use;
      what should I particularly look for in the solutions? What grading scale
      should I use (letter grades, 0 to 5, 0 to 100, ...)?
 

How will students submit their work (on paper, via Checkmate, via dropbox on EEE or Canvas or Gradescope)?
 

Who will keep the official record of scores?  Shall
      I use the EEE or Canvas GradeBook?
 

How do you want me to handle cases that look like
      cheating?  Will we be using automated plagiarism detection (see http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/checker.html)?


How and when will graded assignments be returned
      to students (in section, electronically)?  How
      quickly do you expect me to grade and return the assignments?





Preparing materials



Do you need me to prepare assignments, proofread
      assignments in advance, develop test cases, or set up infrastructure for
      the assignments?
 

Will you want me to suggest exam questions, proofread
      exams in advance, or prepare exam keys?
 

If you will need me to make photocopies, or in case
      I would like to make copies of materials for my section, what is the photocopier
      access code for the class?


Is there a web page for the course?  What role will
      I have in creating or maintaining it?


How can I get copies of the syllabus and any other
      materials you distribute (on paper or electronically)?
 

Do you have a desk copy of the textbook I can use?
      (Check also with the ICS Instructional Support
      Manager, Lumen Hwang; she may have copies of texts to check out.)





Exams



When are the exams scheduled?


Do you prefer or require that I be present to help
      proctor the exams?  If so, how much help should I give students who ask
      questions during the exam?
 

Who will grade the exams, and when?





Records and grades



Who will maintain the official records of students'
      scores on assignments, exams, and other items?
 

How should I address questions from students who
      want to know how well they're doing in the class or what their probable
      grade will be?
 

Will you expect me to participate in calculating
      the final grades?  In what ways?  At the end of the quarter, by what date
      do you expect that I will be finished with my teaching duties?





Travel schedule



Do you plan to be out of town during the quarter?
       If so, is there something special I should do in your absence?     (TAs may also have conferences to attend or qualifying
      exams to take.  If those plans will conflict with scheduled sections or
      grading expectations, the TA must make sure the instructor knows about these
      plans and approves of any alternative arrangements. It's not okay just to ask your office mate to cover your section.) 





Meeting time

Can we set up a weekly time to meet
      briefly to discuss how the course is going?





More information — Consult these resources
for further information:

UCI's Electronic Educational Environment
(EEE or E3, http://eee.uci.edu) provides
up-to-date course rosters, automatically maintained class mailing lists,
an on-line gradebook, mid-quarter course evaluations, course discussion
groups, and more.  To authorize a TA to use these features, an instructor
must log on to eee.uci.edu with his or her UCInet ID and use the Assistant
Editor feature. The campus is migrating from the locally developed EEE to the commercial product Canvas. More information is available on line.



A wide variety of general teaching issues are addressed on the web site of UCI's Center for Engaged Instruction
    (CEI, http://cei.uci.edu/).  The
    CEI also provides free videotaping and confidential consultation on teaching
  quality and teaching techniques.



The ICS Student Affairs Office can answer questions
about degree requirements, prerequisites, enrollment policies, and other
aspects of the undergraduate program.



Other students who have been TAs or readers for the
same course in the past can serve as a valuable informal source of information
and advice.



If you have a student with difficulties that are
beyond your expertise to address, you may wish to refer the student to the
  Learning and Academic Resource Center
(LARC, http://www.larc.uci.edu, for
tutorial assistance, study skills, writing, and time management issues),
the UCI Disability Services Center
(http://www.disability.uci.edu,
for students with learning and other disabilities), or the UCI Counseling Center
(http://www.counseling.uci.edu,
for the broad range of personal problems).


 You may wish to check out a TA Guide for ICS 31/32/33 (http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/taguide.html),
  which is one example of an instructor's attempt to answer some of these
  questions.


The ICS TA Advisor, David G. Kay,
  is available by Email (kay@uci.edu) and
  in 5056 DBH for advice on these and other teaching-related issues.







