https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/maps-become-more-visual








Maps become more visual – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Maps become more visual    			


Everybody loved Google maps — particularly their zoom-in and out on the satellite images.  If you are Microsoft and you want to enter the space now, what would you do.  You clearly will make them more sexy and put more features.  And that’s what they did.
You just got to visit their beta site and play with it to explore what they offer.  I like it.  But for regular use, I may still stay with simple Yahoo Maps, though for seeing and exploring a particular neighborhood, I will go with Google or Microsoft.
Now the next phase will be for enriching the real local content.
And yes, computer vision people can now do some exciting resarch in ‘where am I ‘ using these maps and pictures taken using camera phones.



By Ramesh |
    				December 8, 2005 |
    				             		Experiential Computing, Prospecting Information |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Yearly tests
Future of Visual Maps →



			2 thoughts on “Maps become more visual”		




Jonathan Aquino December 11, 2005 at 5:11 pm 

Hi Ramesh – I’ve made a demo showing Yahoo Maps and Google Maps side by side – http://sidebyside.ning.com . I didn’t include Microsoft, but someone else has done the same thing with Microsoft Maps and Google Maps. Anyway, thought you might be interested in playing around with this direct comparison.








Ramesh  Post authorDecember 13, 2005 at 1:00 pm 

Interesting demo.  Good thing is that comparable functionality, speed, and experience is being offered by the mega players.  This will benefit small developers and the best of all consumers.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


