https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/future-of-visual-maps








Future of Visual Maps – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Future of Visual Maps    			


Like many people I am fascinated by maps from Google and now from Microsoft.  I still find Yahoo maps more useful because they are plain representation of local information and somehow I find them richer in information.  This may be my familiarity with them — I did not try any objective experiment.
These realistic maps from Google and MSN are the result od availability of the satellite and aerial images.  This in turn is the result of the efforts of space agencies, possibly most notably NASA, over last several decades.  NASA has been collecting all kind of data, overlayed on images, for very long time.  It is just that finally technology advanced to the stage where the benefits of the NASA research can be shared directly with consumers.  Good thing is that what we have seen is just the beginning of an interesting direction.
Today when I see images or maps from Google, I usually see old images.  Satellites are regularly sending images for weather analysis and other observation purposes — see Earth Observing Systems Project page — and these images give current status of the earth.  Now imagine that in a few years these images could be available to use in our planning or for whatever purpose.  That means that you could observe what is the current status of a particular location.  You can than mashup these images with some other realtime data and that starts the beginning of a (near) real time observation system for any place on the earth.  ANd you could also analyze the changes taking place at these locations.
Effectively, this will being the technology that is currently used for weather prediction to your desptop — sorry to your phone.  This is not scienc fiction — this is likely scenarion in just a few years from now.
This could be an interesting direction for some innovators.  The major revolution in maps started — among other things — when Keyhole technology was acquired by Google.  People like to talk about the Next Google, it may also be interesting to think about the NEXT Keyhole.



By Ramesh |
    				December 9, 2005 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism, Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Maps become more visual
Young Innovators in ICS 180/280 →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


