https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/microsoft-vs-netscape-and-microsoft-vs-google








Microsoft Vs Netscape and Microsoft VS Google – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Microsoft Vs Netscape and Microsoft VS Google    			


In a story on Microsoft, Steve Lohr describes an interesting anecdote:
The familiar pattern of a decade ago begs the question that Bill Gates was asked when he met last month with a group of executives and journalists from The New York Times: Will you do to Google what you did to Netscape?
Mr. Gates, the Microsoft co-founder and chairman, paused, looked down at his folded hands and smiled broadly, as if enjoying a private joke. “Nah,” he replied, “we’ll do something different.”
I am definitely one of those waiting to see the moves.  So far, including the one of hiring Ray Ozzie (the story above) has not resulted in any thing really impressive.



By Ramesh |
    				December 11, 2005 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Academia and Visual Maps
Live Video on CNN — Glimpse into the Future →



			One thought on “Microsoft Vs Netscape and Microsoft VS Google”		




Vijay Anand December 12, 2005 at 1:36 pm 

That’s certainly an interesting reaction. I certainly think that 2006 is going to have a showdown between MSN, Google and Yahoo for the search engine market and there is a whole different list for the VoIP industry. Certainly interesting times.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


