https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/live-video-on-cnn-glimpse-into-the-future








Live Video on CNN — Glimpse into the Future – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Live Video on CNN — Glimpse into the Future    			


CNN has launched a premium service, Pipeline,  that has live video of developing News.  This is an interesting glimpse into the nature of things that are likely to happen in the future.
The killer app for Pipeline is four live video streams, which offer mostly unedited looks at news events throughout the world. These streams, or “pipes,” can be played in a special video player and chosen by Pipeline’s editors in Atlanta. 
Most content on the Web is currently ‘past’ or archived content.  There are many live cameras and other live sensors that are being increasingly put on Internet, but these have not become a primary content sources on the Web.  Live content opens up many interesting opportunities as well as technical challenges.  This takes us into the Live Web and will definitely be very exciting.
What CNN is doing is opening this frontier.  It will be interesting to see how fast this area develops.



By Ramesh |
    				December 13, 2005 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Microsoft Vs Netscape and Microsoft VS Google
Government in India →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


