https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/government-in-india








Government in India – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Government in India    			


It is always good to come back to India.  Particularly after spending some time in Singapore.
This is a relatively long visit to India — will be here until Jan 2.  First 9 days in Bangalore than in Nagpur with the last day in Mumbai.  I hope to get chance to see and observe what is happening in India.  Considering the enormous positive media coverage that India is getting in the last years, it is always good to calibrate the reality with media.
Bangalore remains the same ‘interesting’ place.  A city where infra structure is terrible but the technical discussions are great.  As soon as you come out of the plane, you can not help but think is this the famous ‘high-tech city?’ and that’s only the beginning.  
On the other hand sitting thru the whole day meetings to hear the progress by Seraja team clearly shows why this city is leading the evolution of India into the modern age.  People are very professional and knowledgeable — can compete with any place that I have been to.
When is Government of India (and Karnataka) is going to become as ambitious and professional as professionals in Bangalore?  It is amazing what is happening in Bangalore and other similar cities despite the infrastructure and other support from Goverment of India.  One can only wonder what will happen if due to some miracle  the Government in India becomes as ambitious and professional as professions I meet here!



By Ramesh |
    				December 16, 2005 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Live Video on CNN — Glimpse into the Future
Presentation of Flickr story on News.com →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


