https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/bangalore-and-hyderabad








Bangalore and Hyderabad – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Bangalore and Hyderabad    			


Now I have been in India for about a week, mostly in Bangalore with one day in Hyderabad.
Much has been written about Bangalore.  I find that the infrastructure is much worse than I anticipated.  Roads are really in very bad shape.  Airport is from the days before the boom and looks terrible for the city that has become a world-class city.  On the other hand I found that professionalism among the people I met has become better than what I found a few years ago.  People are better informed and professional.  The intellectual environment (for technical things) has become very vibrant.  One can expect the quality of discussions at par with any place in the world.
Hyderabad has controlled their development much better.  Overall there is lots of development there but it does not seem as chaotic as in Bangalore.
I also noted that people are very positive about what they are doing and what they could do.
Seraja, the company that I am involved with, is a good example.  I am very pleasantly surprised by the amount of progress we have made and the quality of work.  It does look that we will have a good system to show the beginning of the EventWeb in mid January.
Tomorrow I will get a chance to visit many modern areas of the city and then I will go to Nagpur to visit my family — on a kind of vacation for 7 days.



By Ramesh |
    				December 22, 2005 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Visual Search
A memorable evening in Bangalore →



			One thought on “Bangalore and Hyderabad”		




Samantha December 23, 2005 at 12:41 am 

Hi Mr. Ramesh,
I totally agree with you. You can also look at this blog by somebody in Bangalore about the worsening infrastructure. The guy had all points right about his views on Bangalore and hit the nail straight on its head.
http://iamjunk.rediffblogs.com/
Tnx,
Samantha







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


