http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/turnitin.html





Using Turnitin.com in ICS





Using Turnitin.com in ICS

The Turnitin.com service for detecting plagiarism
    in English prose has been used effectively at UCI for quite a few years; it checks
    submissions against Internet sources and against other submissions (so that
    if you use the service in successive quarters, students who "recycle"
others' work from previous quarters will be identified).  
The rest of this document is of mainly historical value; aside from this paragraph, it was last modified in 2010. More current information should be available at EEE: https://eee.uci.edu/help/turnitin/ .
This document describes how to use Turnitin.com in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at UCI. Instructors from other units at UCI should contact their own units' coordinators; for help with this, contact Steve Franklin (franklin@uci.edu), the campus coordinator for Turnitin.com.

The campus has a contract with Turnitin that allows
unlimited use by any class on campus.  Instructors now interact
with Turnitin.com themselves; back when there was money, we had a grad student who could help coordinate this. 

There are four steps to using Turnitin.com:


Register yourself and your course with Turnitin.com

Give students notice that Turnitin.com will be used,
as mandated by UCI's agreement with Turnitin.com

If you want to check a single student's work, submit it to Turnitin.com yourself. To check all your students' assignments, you may  instruct your students
to submit their own assignments directly to Turnitin.com (which is both
inconvenient and subject to subterfuge—a student might submit one
version to you for grading and a different version to Turnitin.com for plagiarism
checking). You may also have students submit their work via Checkmate (checkmate.ics.uci.edu) or the EEE DropBox and then write a shell script to manage the batch submission to Turnitin.com.


Review the Turnitin.com similarity report(s)


Each step is described below.


Register yourself and your course with Turnitin.com


First, send David Kay a message (kay@ics.uci.edu);
he'll send you the ICS account ID and password you'll need to register. 

Go to www.turnitin.com
and click "Create a User Profile."  This launches a series of
registration screens. [Note that Turnitin.com's user interface is notorious for changing frequently.]


In step 1, enter your UCInet ID (your Email address
@uci.edu) where it asks for an Email address.  

In step 2, enter a password (which is between you
and Turnitin.com; it need not be your UCInet ID password).  

In step 3, enter your name, "US", and "California". 

In step 4, enter "instructor".  

In step 5, read the agreement and click "Agree". 


Then click to start the class setup process.


In step 1, enter the ICS account and password you
received from David Kay.

In step 2, enter the name of your course, following
the format of these examples: "Spring 2004 ICS 131:  Social Analysis
of Computerization" or "Summer 10-week 2004 ICS 139W:  Communications
Skills for Computer Scientists"

In step 3, make a note of the class ID number you've
been assigned.  Choose a "class enrollment password."

Step 4 asks you to specify a name and due date for
your first assignment.  The due date tells us when it's safe to start
uploading assignments.  You can modify and add assignment information later.


After you receive confirmation of the previous step,
go back to www.turnitin.com and log
in with the Email address and password you specified.  This will show you
your course.



Give students notice that Turnitin.com will be
used

UCI's agreement with Turnitin.com requires that
students be notified about some aspects of the system's use.

The best way to achieve this is to ask students to
sign the following statement.  If you typically give students a questionnaire
that collects demographic information, you could include this text at the
bottom, perhaps introduced with some softening language (e.g., " We
apologize for this fine print, but the University wants us to be perfectly
clear about a couple of things.  Please read this carefully and sign it.").

I understand and agree that to protect the value
of the independent work that I do in this course, the work of all students
in the course may be compared for textual analysis and evidence of plagiarism
to the work of other students, both in this course and in others, and to
other sources on the Internet and elsewhere.  This may involve the storage
of students' work on computer systems outside of the university, such
as the Turnitin.com reference database; this storage is solely for purposes
of detecting plagiarism.  Use of the Turnitin.com service is subject to
the usage policy agreement posted on the Turnitin.com site.  Students who
wish an offline alternative to Turnitin.com should check with their instructor;
typical offline alternatives include providing a full annotated bibliography
and copies of all cited works with each submitted assignment.  I promise
to follow all the university, departmental, and course policies about academic
honesty.


Signature: _______________________________      
                       Date: ____________


The requirement for providing an offline alternative
probably comes from courses where students write about very personal and
potentially embarrassing topics.  In computer science classes, this presumably
should not be an issue.  The alternatives are meant to be burdensome enough
to dissuade students from requesting them and thorough enough to demonstrate
with confidence that a student who does use them will have done his or her
own work.

It would be reasonable to allow students to return
this signed statement at the next class meeting, so those few who actually
wish to read the various policies have an opportunity to do so before signing.
 Have a TA check the returned statements off against the class roster and
keep after straggling students. You could also reproduce this information
on your syllabus, so students continue to have access to it (see an enhanced sample
that supplements but does not replace the text above).


Have students submit their assignments electronically
via Checkmate

Turnitin.com's original model is that individual
students submit their own work to Turnitin.com.  The problem with this,
besides having to teach students how to use the system and dealing with
their difficulties, is that a student could easily submit a plagiarized
version to the instructor for grading and a different, non-plagiarized version
to Turnitin.com.  Some instructors may be willing to live with this, or
to grade students' work directly from their Turnitin.com submissions;
if so, that course of action is available.

But the better way to handle this is to have students
make a single electronic submission using the Checkmate system in ICS (checkmate.ics.uci.edu).
 Those submissions can be downloaded and viewed or printed for grading;
they can also be collected and submitted in a batch to Turnitin.com.


Review the Turnitin.com similarity reports

Within a couple of days after the assignments are
submitted to Turnitin.com, the instructor can log back in to Turnitin.com
and view the similarity report.  As always, these reports should serve as
indications of papers that merit further (human) investigation; accusations
shouldn't be made solely on the strength of any automated tool.




