https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/face-processing-technology








Face Processing Technology – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Face Processing Technology    			


Just came back from XiD, a face processing company in Singapore.
I am advisor to this company so my views are not totally objective, but I am trying to be as objective as possible in this post.
Face detection and recognition have been topic of interest in many applications.  Surveillance and monitoring companies have been looking into this technology for quite some time.  Video processing company were interested in this — Virage used it in their systems.  Academia has been developing many techniques for this and many algorithms are available in this space.  XiD adopted a very interesting approach that was based on ‘face synthesis’.  A face image is used to generate many — thousands — synthetic variation of the face in different lighting, orientation, and scale conditions, also with glasses, facial hair and other potential changes.  And this set of synthetic images is then used to recognize faces.  XiD was focussed in Surveillance and related areas and was having some success.  The problem was that this market is quite difficult to penetrate.
Since last July, they changed their approach.  That was the last time I visited them.  This time, it looked like a different company.  They call themself a face processing company because in addition to detection and recognition of faces, now they do a bunch of different things with faces.  They can track faces, create 3-d versions of faces and change expressions on this face my controlling certain muscle parameters, can replace one face with another with expressions from one imposed on the other, and so on and on.  This opens up possibilities that are very interesting and go far beyond simple face recognition technology.  It opens up applications in video greeting cards, Avatars in games or in IM, in videos, and others.  It was very exciting to see how computer graphics technology is being combined with computer vision technology to develop applications around human face — supposedly one of the most interesting ‘photo’ for humans. 



By Ramesh |
    				January 5, 2006 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism, Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← India:  A mystery land
Gutenberg’s revenge →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


