http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/taguide.html





TA Guide * ICS 31/32/33





ICS 31/32/33 TA Guide
[To read this most easily, make your browser window
narrow.]
In a research university, TAs provide some of the
closest attention students receive early in their careers. TAs have a
great opportunity to shape students' experiences (positively or
negatively). We hope this guide will help you and we welcome
suggestions for improvement. Note that details vary from course to
course and from instructor to instructor, so consult the instructor of
your course for definitive information. [You may find this most
readable in a narrow browser window.]

Before the quarter starts

If you don't have one already, obtain a UCInet ID and also an ICS Lab Account for access to networks and
campus services.
Take a look around these web services we
may be using.  Not all have documentation on line and we haven't
made final decisions yet on which we'll use in Fall 2016:

EEE, UCI's Electronic Educational Environment,
which we'll use for recording scores, getting rosters, and administering
online quizzes. EEE is gradually merging with the commercial learnng
management system Canvas.
Checkmate, ICS's system for students to submit
solutions to assignments (checkmate.ics.uci.edu)
Piazza, where students can get their
course-related questions answered quickly (piazza.com)
UCI Replay, where recordings of each class
meeting (audio plus screen capture) will be posted (with about 90%
reliability) (replay.uci.edu, but links to the recordings will
be sent to the class mailing list and archived on EEE)
Gradescope.com, for expediting the grading of
paper exams (and possibly assignments)
The ICS
Partner App, for expediting the grading of
paper exams (and possibly assignments)
Pythontutor.com, which gives illustrated traces
of Python program execution
codingbat.com, which provides online programming
exercises

You should locate these materials on the
web or on paper:

Course syllabus/reference sheet

Course reference sheet, including course
outline, policies, and due dates. This is available on the Web through
eee.uci.edu or from the instructor's home page.
ICS academic honesty policy and any
policies specific to the instructor of the course

Course assignments page (typically linked from
the syllabus on line)
Textbooks are (or soon will be) available for
TAs to check out from  Lumen Hwang in the ICS Student Affairs
office.

Read these documents thoroughly; they state
policies your students (and you) are bound by.

During the first week and first lab(s)

Check your electronic mail frequently. We
will announce meetings, schedule changes, new policies, and so on;
your students will suffer if you don't have the up-do-date
information. Get into this habit now, and keep it throughout the
quarter.
Mark your calendar for the afternoons and
evenings following the midterm(s) and final exam. We will get
together and do all the grading of all the exams and recording the
scores at that single time; things go fastest and most smoothly that
way. Bring a laptop; we'll grade using Gradescope (on scanned exams).
TAs and the instructor will meet again the day after the final
exam to set the final grades. Every TA must do his or her part for
this process to run smoothly. In particular, this means that all of
your labs must be graded and recorded in the EEE GradeBook the day
before the final exam. Since you know this now, please arrange your
own exam studying and travel schedule to accommodate these
constraints.
TAs can get a roster of enrolled students via EEE.
If students add the course late, keep a record of
when they added (so you don't penalize them for making up the
lab assignments after the deadline).
Your students need to create accounts to
get access to the ICS lab machines, but they don't have to do it
immediately. For a week or two, they can log in as ics-temp with the
password Anteat3r . On their own time, they should go to the
third-floor lab and sign up for an ICS account.
Consider setting office hours. With
scheduled lab hours three days a week, students can see you regularly. But
sometimes students can use five or ten minutes of one-on-one
explanation. The conventional way to provide this is by scheduling
some office hours; a difficulty with that approach is that sometimes
nobody will show up to a scheduled hour and some students will have
conflicts with whatever hours you schedule. It's fine to make the
gesture by scheduling an hour or two, but these days it's equally fine
not to schedule hours in advance and instead to make it clear
repeatedly to the class that you will be glad to consult with them
one-on-one; they just need to ask you and you'll work out a mutually
agreeable time. Experience shows that the latter approach consumes
less of your time in total. You can devote some of the time you save
to answering questions on Piazza.
Look at the photo roster of your students
(under WebRosters on EEE) so you can learn their names. You should
learn names not only because students will learn better if they know
you know them by name, but also because you'll be able to identify any
non-students who try to come and take an exam in a real student's
place. 
Check that they've completed the demographic
questionnaire at EEE and nag them until they comply. (We have yet
to work out a mechanism for separating your sections' students from
the group.)

Students must choose a different partner for
each lab assignment; they may not repeat partners during the
     quarter. The ICS
     PartnerApp should enforce these rules, but you still need to
     know what the rules are.l

Most students should pick their partners for the
next week's lab at the end of Friday's lab. Any stragglers can partner up
on Monday. If there's one
odd student, that student can join an existing pair (but only once
during the quarter) or can work alone (also only once). But if another odd student
shows up, the third person or solo worker should join the latecomer to
form a pair. The ICS Partner App allows a TA (not a student) to
register permission for solos or trios; make sure you do that
so the student isn't penalized for doing it without authorization.
It's generally best for students of similar
experience and ability to be partners; that makes the give and take
more even. However, it's
hard to measure ability and experience levels and the pairings will
never be perfect. Here's a
technique to try early in the quarter: Have all the students stand up
and form a rough line, with more experienced students on one end of
the room and less experienced students on the other. The ordering doesn't have to be
perfect, but you can suggest that they choose a partner from the
people who are nearby.
Students will complete partner evaluations at
the end of each lab, using the ICS Partner App. 


At every lab session

Be on time. Students depend on having you
there at the scheduled time. And don't cut out early.
Be prepared to answer students' questions.
Presumably you already know the subject matter, but you must also
know the assignments. The only way to do that effectively is to
read them carefully in advance and, where possible, try to work them
out. If a student asks whether something is important or required, you
want to be certain that you're giving the right answer (and check with
the instructor if there's a question that the assignment writeup
doesn't answer clearly): If you give a wrong answer on something like
this, the student may be graded down, and that's not a happy
situation. Don't guess about assignment requirements; if you're
not sure, check with the instructor (or post on Piazza) before giving
the student a definitive answer.
Make yourself available to the students:
Even if the students all seem busy, don't read your own e-mail, don't
IM your friends, don't make cellphone calls, don't do your own
classwork, because students will hesitate to interrupt you. When
you're in the lab, you should circulate around and help students, not
simply wait for them to call on you. Don't get so deeply involved in
conversations that you don't notice when students need help; you
should cruise around the room at least once every five minutes.
Whenever you're in the instructional lab, you should be prepared to
answer students' questions courteously, even if you aren't officially
on duty at that time. It's unfriendly to tell a student, "I'm not even
supposed to be here now," even if it's technically true. If you need
to do your own work on lab machines, you may be able to work with
fewer interruptions in the Open Lab (ICS 364).
Spread yourself around to everyone rather
than concentrating on just a few. If many people want you at once,
leave the current person with a task to do independently while you
make the rounds. Make sure each student gets at least "first
aid" help so they can get back to work; after that, feel free to
spend more in-depth time with students who need it. We don't want
students to be able to say, "We couldn't get anything done in lab
because we had to wait an hour to talk to the TA." (Avoid even joking
about things like only paying attention to the cutest students; some
people won't take it as a joke.)
Give students help, not answers. It's fine
to tell people how to solve system-related problems, or how language
features work, but you should lead them to their own solutions
of programming and CS problems. They shouldn't become dependent on
you; they should learn for themselves how to use the web
safely for reference, how to insert extra debugging
print statements, how to do execution traces. Be pleasant
but ruthless about this. Students will beg you for a quick-fix answer,
and it's easier for you just to give it than to point them towards
finding the solution themselves.  [This applies to programming
problems; early in the quarter you can answer direct questions
about how to use IDLE and what the syntax of a Python feature is.]
Nonetheless, resist the temptation,
because students will come to expect you to fix their problems for
them. In the long run, that hurts both them and you. Your class may
expect students to use a "design recipe," writing out a function
signature (input types and return type), purpose statement (docstring
comment), and examples (in the executable form of assert statements)
before they write any code; if so, insist on seeing these
steps.
Encourage students to follow pair
programming for assignments that require it: two people, one
computer, one driver, one navigator, switch roles regularly. Make sure
the partners are talking and changing roles, and that the less
experienced students don't just sit quietly and watch. If they don't
get into this pattern right at the start, it will be much harder to
get them to do it later. If you see a pair member who seems
disengaged, that's a cue that you can intervene to provide some
help.
Keep an eye out for academic
dishonesty. Pair programming does not mean that it's okay to
get answers from anyone or anywhere. Students may freely communicate
with their partner, with the lab tutors, with their TA, and with the
instructor. Students may also post questions on Piazza.com, though
their posting should not include significant portions of lab
assignment solution code. Communication with others (non-partner
classmates and outsiders) is limited to questions about language
features and system setup. This quarter, we'll be a little more
relaxed about cross-communication in the first three weeks (for the
first three lab assignments); we won't worry much about students
getting help from each other as they get up to speed. But starting
with week 4, the official guidelines are in effect.
Help students solve problems using what they
already know. Especially in Python, there may be some advanced
language feature or library function that solves the problem in a
snap. But the goal is to promote their abilities with the basic
features covered in class and the textbook. Covering advanced features
too soon places too great a cognitive burden on the students.
Find out what the students are supposed to
know. To help students use what they already know (or are
supposed to have learned), you have to know what that is. Most
instructors have published course notes or a schedule keyed to a
textbook; it's part of your job to keep up with these so you don't
inadvertently tell the students something they're not ready for. A key
principle of teaching introductory programming is that you can't teach
everything all at once—you have to leave some things out or cover them
later. It's the instructor who gets to decide what the schedule is,
and the TAs and tutors need to be aware of those decisions and support
them.
Don't feel guilty if you can't immediately
identify the student's problem or bug. While most of us can see
bugs quickly for the early, trivial assignments, that may lead
students to expect (unrealistically) that we'll always be able
to find and fix their problems at a glance. Of course nobody can do
that for significant programs, and TAs need to make this clear to
students, by explaining it and by encouraging them to find their own
bugs by adding unit tests, test cases, extra print statements, and
tracing their code—whichever methods your instructor has taught them.
(You may have to show some students how to do this step by step the
first time; not everybody knows how to debug instinctively.) If a
student objects to the painstaking work involved in such tracing,
remind them that they can minimize the need for it by spending more
time in the design phase.
Some novice students program "expressionistically," just
putting down code that "feels right"; they need to learn more
systematic design.
Remind students to prepare for lab by
reading and thinking about the assignment beforehand; they should be
ready to work when they sit down with their partner.
Encourage students to post course-related
questions on Piazza if you can't answer the question in person.
With luck, they might get an answer before the lab session is
over.
Maintain decorum in the lab: Don't shout
across the room to someone (or let students do so); gently calm down
students who get too rowdy or frustrated. Have students using
sound-producing software keep the volume low or off.
Ask students to take their food and drink
out into the hall. The carpets are new; they won't be replaced
for another ten years.  Students say they'll be careful, but
they can't guarantee that their drink won't get knocked over
by the student in the next row trying to squeeze by.
Last one out, lock the door. If
your lab section is the last one in the evening, be sure to pull the
door closed after the last student has left. This activates the
alarm.
This hasn't happened for years, but if problems
arise with a student, try to deal with it calmly yourself, and if
that doesn't work, contact the lab manager or the instructor. In
extreme cases, call the campus police (this has never been necessary
in the past, though). If you suspect cheating or other major
infractions of University rules, contact the instructor directly with
as much hard evidence as you can; you should not attempt to handle
academic dishonesty issues yourself.

Periodically during the quarter

TAs will attend weekly meetings where we
can compare notes on how things are going.
Check your electronic mail at least once
daily. Good communication is essential, with the instructor and
with your students. Respond to every message in a timely
way, within a day under normal circumstances. The response
might be, "I'll send you a full answer later," or it might
be, "This would be better to discuss in person than over
e-mail." But at least send some response promptly. Official
course announcements come by Email, too; they are archived at
EEE.
Check Piazza.com periodically. Feel free to
answer questions on Piazza.com as an instructor. But keep these points
in mind:
     
The whole class will read your response, including
students in other TAs' sections. Other TAs may have slightly different
grading criteria than you do, or may have resolved certain minor
requirements differently than you did. So if you suspect there may be
variation, say in your posting "This is for students in my
sections; check with your own TA for your section's
requirements." Piazza makes it easy for other TAs to add to your
response and say "This applies to my section, too" or
"I want students in my section to do it this way." [Remember
that the class is graded separately by TA, so your students aren't
compared directly with other TAs' students.]
Your response will be read by students who are less far
along than the questioner (and those who are farther along).  Be
careful that your specific answer doesn't create more confusion among
other students; qualify your answer so that it applies to the specific
question.
Stop short of posting actual solution code on Piazza. It's
okay to correct a single line or two and it's okay to give examples of
helpful techniques (in a context that's related to but not the same as
the assignment). But students shouldn't be able to copy and paste
whole solutions to problems out of Piazza.
Unless you're pointing to something that already exists in
writing (on the syllabus, in Email to the class, on assignment pages),
never make any comments about the likely contents of an exam or about
how scores or grades will be assigned. For the lab assignments, each
TA has some leeway on grading decisions, but for exams and the course
as a whole, leave those questions to the instructor; it's important
that the instructional staff speak with a single voice on these
issues. Don't assume that everything will be the same this quarter as
it was when you TA'd this class before.

Keep in touch with the instructor in person
or electronically. Let us know how things are going, and especially if
anything's going wrong. It's much easier (and more effective) to
correct problems early, before they get out of hand. TAs especially
are on the "front lines" dealing with students' difficulties; we need
to know what those difficulties are.
Keep track of your students, watching for
those who aren't coming to section, who wait too long to start on
their assignments, who aren't active partners in the lab, or who
otherwise aren't doing well; if you encourage them into good work and
study habits early, you may save them from a sorry fate later on. With
sections as large as ours are, there are limits on how much of this
you can do, but try to keep an eye out for students having
trouble.

Students with no previous experience
often feel intimidated by the more experienced students, especially in
the early weeks when they still need to learn the system and they see
the experienced students furiously typing away. Be sure to encourage
the novices to start early and ask questions of their partner;
reassure them that their difficulties are normal and help foster their
feeling that they can complete the work and do well.
Very experienced students have other
problems: Often they think they can wait until the last minute to
complete assignments; this may be true for the first few assignments,
but significant programs take substantial time, even for people who
understand the concepts. Experienced students also may not be used to
following rigid specs imposed by someone else. Recreational
programmers can just change the requirements, but our students have to
solve the hard problems rather than working around them.

Handle various administrative and pedagogical
tasks as they're assigned, usually during weekly staff meetings.
These may include preparing test data, examples, or review
questions.
For more information on being a TA, talk to
David Kay or the Center for Engaged Instruction office on
campus (cei.uci.edu, phone extension 46188). 

Grading lab assignments

TAs are responsible for grading lab
assignments. There's an assignment due every Friday; under normal
circumstances you should grade it over the weekend and have
the scores and comments recorded by Monday's lab. The
feedback students receive from you is essential to their learning; if
they're most of the way through the next lab before they see how they
did on the previous lab, they've lost much of the benefit of the
assignment. Conscientious new TAs and graders often want to give
students lengthy, detailed comments. That's good, but you have to
balance that with your other obligations and the need for rapid
feedback. This does mean that you may not be able to give as detailed
feedback as you'd like. It is far better to give less feedback sooner
than to give more feedback later. If you'd like advice on how to give
feedback effectively in the available time, talk with the instructor
and with experienced TAs.
Students will submit their work electronically
using Checkmate; you can download students'
submissions from Checkmate after the due date. Just one
partner from each team submits the work; they're supposed to but both
partners' names in the submission itself (but the ICS Partner Appp
is also a check on this). Score them on the holistic,
"coarse-grained" check-plus/check/check-minus scale described below;
this should save you time and encourage students to focus on mastering
concepts rather than earning points. 

plus: This is for the rare assignment
that is better than perfect, that does more than what was required. To
get this score students must do something extra, beyond just
submitting a perfect solution. It's best not even to mention the
"plus" and the "minus" score when you're
describing the grading to the students; just stick with
check-plus/check/check-minus.
check-plus: This assignment is complete
and correct, perhaps not perfect but with only very minor flaws.
check: This assignment was mostly
complete and mostly correct; a few parts were missing or wrong, but
mainly it was okay. Code that doesn't compile doesn't count towards a
check; if none of their code compiles, check-minus is the highest
possible score. The assignment guidelines tell them to run their code
before submitting.
check-minus: This assignment was missing
significant parts or had significant mistakes.
minus: This is for the rare assignment
that is a mere sketchy attempt; few problems are done or correct.

[Subject to change, Fall 2016] Record the scores for your section(s) in the
EEE gradebook. Each graded item has a place for a score (which
must be a number) and for comments. Use the numerical equivalents
below for the score; in the comments field, start with the real score
("check-plus:", "check-minus:", whatever) followed by enough feedback
so the students know what they should have done to receive a higher
score. The numerical equivalents are: plus=67, check-plus=56,
check=45, check-minus=34, minus=23.  These numbers are not
scores—they're just encodings of "check," "check-plus," and so on.
 If a student submits nothing, leave the score empty; do not
fill in a zero.
Each member of a pair receives the same score and
comments.
Use comments to tell students (a) what
they lost points for and (b) what to do differently next
time. Feedback doesn't have to be lengthy (and can be
supplemented by a message to the whole section mentioning commonly
occurring problems), but it should inform the students about why they
lost credit (which can often be expressed  constructively as advice
for how to handle similar issues in the future).
Keep your grades
up to date in the EEE gradebook. We never use the letter-grade
features in the EEE gradebook, but the EEE gradebook is a way to
record and distribute scores and comments reliably. Lab assignments
are due on Fridays; make it a point to have them graded and recorded
by Sunday night. If you let grading pile up, you will be miserable
(and a much less effective grader) and your students will also be
miserable (and will learn much less because of the delayed
feedback).
The assignment pages should be explicit about
what's required, but if you make requirements, clarifications, or
grading criteria specific to your sections, in addition to
announcing them frequently in section you should send them to your
sections' mailing list. Students are most frustrated when they
don't know how they'll be graded, or when they think they were graded
on criteria they didn't know about. Giving specific written criteria
is the best approach. We will be happy to provide further guidance on
this.
Maintain high standards; don't give
everybody check-pluses. If most everyone gets the highest score,
they'll all think they're getting As in the course and there will be a
lot of disappointment. If the assignment is explicit about what's
required, it's okay to reduce scores for students who don't do those
things. If a given issue wasn't covered explicitly one week, it's okay
to tell the class that next time you'll deduct points for it.
(An exception to this may be the first assignment or two, which are
typically simple and straightforward enough that most people do
complete them perfectly.) 
If there were any
particularly good or particularly bad assignments, or anything else
unusual that you think the instructor should see and consider, don't
hesitate to point them out.
Keep good (backed-up) records. One reason
for using EEE is that it's maintained and backed up professionally.
Don't let scores sit around on your machine; upload them to EEE right
away.
If a student has a question or complaint
about a score, don't treat it as an adversary situation:

Don't be forced into making a snap decision on
the spot. If you can't tell immediately that you made a mistake, ask
to take the paper back and review it, when nobody's breathing down
your neck.
Don't get into protracted arguments. Once you've
given your reasons, if the student keeps arguing with you, say calmly
but clearly something like, "I'm sorry, but that's how I graded
everyone's paper. You know how to answer this kind of question in the
future," and then turn to someone else.
If you find you made a mistake or overlooked
something, change the score swiftly and gracefully. There's no shame
in making the mistake, only in refusing to correct it.



Exam and general grading guidelines

Even if you have an answer key, work through
all the problems yourself before starting to grade. This is not
much fun, but it's the only way you can get a feel for all the points
being tested and the difficulties involved in doing the problem.
Don't be rigid when grading—it's often
possible to have a solution that's correct (or nearly correct) even if
it looks crazy at first glance. Try to figure out what the student
meant, and where he or she went wrong; don't just mark something wrong
because it doesn't match the answer key precisely. But don't supply
answers that aren't there—the student must communicate to you; you
can't be clairvoyant.
Grade consistently—People who show the same
level of mastery should receive the same number of points. Students
always compare their graded papers with their classmates', and nothing
makes them legitimately unhappier than losing three points when
someone else lost two for the same thing. Take special pains to grade
consistently, including the following:

Grade vertically: A single person must
grade every student's work on a particular question or assignment.
(This becomes an issue on exams more than lab assignments, where
there's nobody but you to grade your section's work.) Except for
multiple choice questions there's no way to keep grades consistent by
     splitting the same work (e.g., when one person grades work from
     students with names in A-M and the other
does N-Z). Grading vertically also means it's best for a single grader
to grade everyone's Problem One, then everyone's Problem Two, and so
on; it's easier to remember your criteria that way.
Keep notes of the partial-credit criteria
you use. This helps not only during the grading, but later on when
students come back with questions. It's especially important for later
projects and the final exam, when it's not you but the instructor who
will have to field the students' grading questions.
Recheck the papers you graded first,
because your criteria probably will shift during the course of the
grading.
Shuffle the stack after each pass, so you
don't grade the same student first (or last) on every question.
Once some papers are graded, recheck the
criteria by showing some of the graded work to the instructor or
another TA; this is another way to avoid discrepancies between the
requirements and the grading.
Gradescope helps automate some of the above.

Remember that there are people behind the papers
you're grading. Make all your comments helpful and
constructive. Explain where the student did well, or went wrong.
(You may want to make a list of generally applicable comments for
distribution to the class rather than laboriously copying the same
comment into many individual EEE gradebook entries.) It's best not to
grade in red pen; a paper bathed in red is pretty jarring. Try to
avoid giving zero points, except for a completely blank answer (or a
problem worth just a small number of points). One point out of ten,
even for a completely wrong answer, isn't as discouraging as a zero
(and having 10% instead of 0% won't significantly affect a final
grade). You can't be so generous with problems that have fewer than
ten points, of course.
Having assignments and exams returned
promptly is absolutely imperative—people can't study for a test
without their homeworks, and they can't do projects without seeing
their previous mistakes corrected. Education experts say that the
value of feedback diminishes greatly with time. Your goal should be to
grade, record, and return every item before the next section
meeting after it was due. Recording exam scores promptly is
essential because we can't compute classwide statistics until all the
scores are recorded. All the due dates are on the course outline, so
you can plan your schedule accordingly.
Be professional. Nobody on the
instructional staff should second-guess or criticize other staff
members to the students. Students' confidence in the course and the
grading process breaks down when they see that the instructional staff
can't agree among themselves. If a student expresses to you a problem
or concern with the course or anyone involved with it, you should pass
that concern along to the instructor, keeping the student's name to
yourself if you think that's necessary or appropriate.
Be conscious of security while grading
exams. Circle answers, or make lines through blank spaces, so nobody
will be tempted to add correct answers after the things are passed
back. (Do this as an automatic, unfailing habit.) Also, don't leave
answer keys or assignments lying around unattended—this especially
means you must stand by the printer as they come out, so nobody picks
it up by mistake.
Be conscious of privacy. Do not let
students see their classmates' scores, Email addresses, or student ID
numbers, all of which are private information. If you post or
distribute a list of grades outside of EEE, use the last four digits
of the students' IDs, sorted numerically; that's random. Don't keep students' scores on
a computer that someone else has access to unless you have password
protection.

At the end of the quarter

Return your checked-out textbooks.
We'd appreciate it if you'd send us a written
commentary about your experiences as a TA, with suggestions for
improving any aspect of the course. We do change the course based on
these comments.

Electronic Resources

Encourage your students to post course-related
questions on Piazza.com. They will also have your Email addresses
and the instructor's, which they can use for personal issues like
having to miss class. But if they send general questions directly to
you, gently encourage them to use Piazza instead, so everyone can
benefit from seeing the question and answer. As you
answer questions on Piazza, stay attuned to the possibility
that other TAs may have given slightly different clarifications or
interpretations of a problem; it's best to qualify your responses
(e.g., "in my section ...") in such a case. On the other hand, for
some assignments we may designate a specific person to handle all
questions about the specs; this will promote consistency across
sections.
To send messages to your students, use the
mailing list(s) for your lab section(s) maintained by EEE. Use this
list rather than one you build yourself; the registrar automatically
updates it as students add and drop your section, and EEE maintains a
web-based archive of all the messages.
To get a current roster for your
section(s), including the option of a photo roster, use the roster
tool on EEE.



We would be pleased to hear about other information you
think would be helpful to include here.

David G.
Kay, kay@uci.edu

