https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/google-and-video








Google and Video – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Google and Video    			


Google Video is a much talked about event on the Web — anything that Google does becomes famous.  This is as disappointing as many other efforts in video space by traditional search companies.  It is very clear that ‘video search’ for Google means searching the titles of videos or names of the video files.    Like any other file, Video files should have a name.  But Google does not search other sites based on the names of the files alone.  It does get into the ‘content’ of those files and does analysis of the text to extract keywords that should be used to index those files (or pages).  The success of text search is based on the text analysis.
I don’t understand why all the search engine think that for text files they should use text analysis of files, but they think that they don’t need to open the video file to do any analysis!!!
I just hope that sometime they will start taking video, images, and audio half seriously.  All these companies have so many researchers working seriously on those interesting problems — I am waiting to see fruits of their research.



By Ramesh |
    				January 11, 2006 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Singapore and Multimedia
Back Home →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


