https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/eventweb-is-getting-ready








EventWeb is getting ready – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				EventWeb is getting ready    			


SEraja has launched 0.8 with limited public access.  Currently this site is password protected and is by invitation only.  It has event data for Bangalore only.  If you want to get invitation, contact them by visiting www.seraja.com and requesting them.
Since I am a cofounder of this company with Rajesh Jain (no relation; but a long term great friend), I am biased.  You will hear about Sreaja frequently from me.
The current version is to get feedback from people before it is launched officially in March.  This site will allow you to access events in Bangalore.  It will also allw you to enter events for public access.  Users will be able to comment, publich reports (text, video, audio, images, …) on events, annotate reports (including videos), assign tags and search events based on annothations, tags, and comments.  Events will be linked with other events to form a web of events.  Current version starts with partial functionality and will slowly be enriched in features.  It is expected that soon it will cover major cities in India and then will go outside India.
It is very exciting to see our ideas starting to take shape.  We have a long way to go, but it is a good start.
THANKS a lot SEraja Team.  You have started very nicely on an exciting journey in the land of EventWeb.



By Ramesh |
    				January 17, 2006 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism, Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Image Search — Retrievr
Globe-divide →



			2 thoughts on “EventWeb is getting ready”		




Arun January 18, 2006 at 2:17 am 

Congrats Ramesh. It’s been great fun trying to translate your thoughts and ideas into reality.  The team here loves working with you.








Animesh February 12, 2006 at 11:05 am 

Great Work! It feels fantastic to see innovation happenning in the consumer internet space in India. Congrats. Since we ourselves are a few weeks away from a restricted public alpha, it helps to have innovators like you show us the way.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


