https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/globe-divide








Globe-divide – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Globe-divide    			


People talk about digital divide among society for people who have access to computing related technology and who don’t have; and bottom of pyramids for poorer segment of society.  There is a different kind of ‘divide’ being created across thw world.  This is the divide created by availability of maps and other information about places.  Places that have good maps and good information are known to attract businesses, tourists, and developments.  Places without maps are deprived and are relegated to slower developments.  I personally notice this contrast when I am in India.  In US, I use Google and Yahoo maps for finding all local information including planning my trips, visits, and shopping.  In India, even in Bangalore the IT capital of India (possibly the World) one notices lack on map-based info.
Holland is going to be fully viewable on the net.  As reported in the Reuter article on News.com
Full-circle pictures taken at 20 meter intervals (about 65 feet) in metropolitan areas and every 50 meters (about 165 feet) in rural areas will show the entire country at street level, with satellite images supplied by Google Earth offering a bird’s-eye view. 
This is marvellous.  It may give rise to lots of interesting ideas and research challenges.
But this also creates a strong divide between parts of the globe that are competely viewable and the ones that are more or less completely opague.  This is starting the globe-divide.  And it has serious business and social implications.



By Ramesh |
    				January 18, 2006 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← EventWeb is getting ready
Internet growth in China →



			2 thoughts on “Globe-divide”		




Vijay January 18, 2006 at 7:03 am 

Please check mapofindia.com. Mapmyindia.com and there are some very good maps availble in print. I personally use Eicher’s.
I know maps in india make some sense. But with the growth seen in India its tough to keep up! Anyways, there is Google Earth. Plus the big devil realeased something the other day.
However, there is a cheap and easy solution: pull down ur window and ask!
-Vijay








Bill February 9, 2006 at 5:47 am 

This is just the difference between developed and developing countries – no more than this.
Map-creation and replications simply wouldn’t be valued in a place where many people struggle to even find a decent meal.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


