https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/internet-growth-in-china








Internet growth in China – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Internet growth in China    			


Reuters story in News.com says
The number of Web users in China, the world’s second-largest Internet market, grew by 18 percent in 2005 to 111 million, the Economic Daily reported Wednesday.
I wonder what is the number in India, Brazil, and similar countries where the primary language is not English.  Considering the rate of growth of Internet users combined with inexpensive computers being marketed by companies like Novatium, the need for technology to develop content in local languages by masses is becoming more needed.  The early adopters in all these countries are usually well-educated and wel-to-do people who also are English speakers.  To cross the chasm it is essential that Folk Computing technology be developed.



By Ramesh |
    				January 19, 2006 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Globe-divide
Where is this? →



			2 thoughts on “Internet growth in China”		




Amir January 21, 2006 at 1:57 pm 

Something interesting along those lines is the number of mobile phone users. In china for example, there are 363 million mobile phone users compared to around 100 million internet users (Morgan Stanley, 2005). According to this report, this is actually a trend that covers Europe, Japan, and South Korea as well (they all have more mobile phone users than internet users). It would be interesting to know these statistics for the developing countries as well. It can have many implications for future technologies.
Source: http://www.morganstanley.com/institutional/techresearch/pdfs/meeker_internet_trends100605.pdf








Bill February 9, 2006 at 6:30 am 

I know someone who recently increased the sales he was making for an internet product by advertising to Chinese regions.
These customers people from China, Taiwan, Hong Kong who spoke English.
Perhaps more will follow…







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


