https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/a-great-but-failed-vision-medialab-asia








A Great but failed vision: MediaLab Asia – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				A Great but failed vision: MediaLab Asia    			


Media Lab Asia was a great vision that was not successful.  One of those great ideas that demonstrate that great vision and wonderful ideas fail miserably if the ‘operations’ side — commonly ignored or considered unimportant part by several visionaries — is not equally strong.  I had some relationship with the project and saw how great vision was being slipping away due to operational problems.  Operational problems included not building structures that will work in the given cultural situation, trying to produce things too fast, and ultimately things being driven by multiple people (with strong egos) with differing agendas.  In one year of my involvement I saw some people who had great vision and wanted to transform rural India to people who were their to dig gold as fast as they could because they were not sure how much time they have.
There were some great ideas and good starts.  Ultimately things collapsed due to MLAsia not being sound, poitical winds changing in India, and great egos involved.
This post was prompted by an article that I just read written by Mike Best who was there to see everything and was pointed to me by Venkatram who diligently worked for MLAsia from early days but was victim of the CEO’s management style (as mentioned in the article).  Very interesting read.  I must add that Sandy Pentland, the founding Director of the lab continues with his vision and is still doing things for emerging countries.  And I developed a vision for Folk Computing — different from $100 computer commonly touted as the solution for these people in rural India — during my time with MLAsia and I hope to work on it sometime soon.



By Ramesh |
    				February 4, 2006 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Movies by and for phones
Family →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


