https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/progress-in-speech-recognition








Progress in Speech Recognition – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Progress in Speech Recognition    			


An intreresting conversation about the state of art in sppech recognition appeared in PC Magazine.  The key point is:
So, there is nothing really wrong [with speech recognition today] except that we are just at the beginning of this technology. But the surprising thing is that [at] the end, if you compare [a computer’s ability to understand speech] to human performance, it might not be too far apart. At IBM, we have this Superhuman Speech Recognition [program] that has a goal to get there, comparable to human performance, in the next five years.



By Ramesh |
    				February 6, 2006 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Family
Video Analysis and COntent Extraction (VACE) →



			2 thoughts on “Progress in Speech Recognition”		




sindhu February 25, 2006 at 6:49 am 

sir, i am an undergraduate interested in speaker recognition n related topics. could u please give a brief overview as to how this technology works or any related links.








Ramesh  Post authorFebruary 25, 2006 at 9:34 am 

Speaker recognition techniques try to determine who the speaker is based on specific speech characteristics and patterns in audio signals.  Currently most techniques use spectral characteristics, but soon the language usage is also likely to become an important component of speaker recognition.
There are many conferences and jurnals related to this field.  Try starting with ASSP under IEEE and from there you will get pointers to many other sources.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


