https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/458








Advertisements – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Advertisements    			


NYT has an article on — depending on your perspective — future of advertisements, or an outside-the-box- thinker in advertising, or attracting attention in a crowd by Timothy O’Brien.  Very interesting and educational and inspirational.  Some interesting parts from the article are quoted here — I loved this article.
“I think technology is going to wreak havoc on the agency business,” Mr. Greenberg predicts of an industry that plans to give him its most prestigious award, a Clio for lifetime achievement, in May. “Because of advances in technology and communication, we’re surrounded by information we see and hear. Overload is a huge issue.
“I think things are going to get infinitely more complex,” he adds, “and the challenge is about taking things that are infinitely complex and making them simpler and more understandable.”
…
But, he says, he doesn’t think that dyslexia ultimately held him back. “Dyslexia may be one of the key elements of creativity, if you overcome it, for people in art, architecture, filmmaking and other creative fields,” he says. “I’m not an expert, but I think dyslexia can give you enormous powers to previsualize things.”
…
Consumers are so swamped by pitches that many simply tune them out. And the more affluent among them exercise enough control over how, where and what they shop for that, with the flick of their fingers, they can bypass unwanted advertising. Mr. Greenberg, the chairman and chief executive of R/GA, wants to engage them in digital conversations that are so entertaining, involving and valuable that they won’t want to ignore them.



By Ramesh |
    				February 12, 2006 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Theory and models of events
Fair weather patriotism →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


