https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/data-mining








Data mining – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Data mining    			


NYT has a detailed article on how Govt wants to use data mining.  This article shows how data mining is being applied to interesting problems in counterterrorism and other operations by analyzing large databases.  A key point is that start-up companies are contributing to this technology effectively by developing cutting edge techniques in this area.
I was pleased to see that Virage, the company I co-founded, was mentioned as one contributing to the cutting edge techniques.
Current data mining techniques are limited to techniques that don’t consider time and location.  Event mining techniques are the next generation of data mining and will be revolutionary in all the aspects mentioned in this article.  Well, there will be serious privacy implications, as are with data mining also.  But I believe that is a separate issue — a very important one — that needs to be solved to make sure that people are comfortable with development of these techniques.



By Ramesh |
    				February 25, 2006 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Proposals and proposals
Great opportunity for Video researchers →



			One thought on “Data mining”		




Paul June 20, 2007 at 1:09 am 

The term Data Mining unfortunately got associated with the whole privacy issue because of the huge media circulation of the counter terrorism project using data mining. It is a bit unfair on the data mining field. Since, the field has many other great applications than only counterterrorism or applications regarding privacy invasion.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


