https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/great-opportunity-for-video-researchers








Great opportunity for Video researchers – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Great opportunity for Video researchers    			


I saw this interesting news about a new video data set being acquired by Google and being put in public.
Here is a great data sets for video researchers interested in developing video analysis and information management techniques.  This data set will be made available by Google and will have strong time and historical elements so will offer interesting challenges and opportunities.  The best is that one can use it freely in testing and presentations.  Here is what they have to say about it
Google Video product manager Peter Chane said the company is working in stages to put as many as possible of the National Archives’ 114,000 film reels and 37,000 videos online. 
“This is a tremendous resource of history and knowledge, and we want to expose that to viewers worldwide,” Chane said. 
The digitization of long-unseen archival footage has been under way for years, but Google’s nonexclusive deal with the National Archives will likely provide a vast, new swath of material for history buffs, educators and filmmakers. 
All of the material is in the public domain, Chane said. That means it can be used or shown elsewhere without paying copyright holders. 
Other video services online, including most notably the Internet Archive, also offer a wide range of newsreels and video content ranging across the last 100 years. 
Great opportunity for eChronicle and event mining research.



By Ramesh |
    				February 25, 2006 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Data mining
Future Surveillance →



			2 thoughts on “Great opportunity for Video researchers”		




Paul July 2, 2007 at 2:29 am 

How about after automated subcategorization,  we let trained people in developing country watch all the video and tag.  That will get some structure for the data. Just a thought.
-Paul








Paul July 2, 2007 at 2:30 am 

How about after automated subcategorization,  we let trained people in developing country watch all the video and tag them.  That will get some structure for the data. Just a thought.
-Paul







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


