https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/newscorp-going-mobile








NewsCorp going Mobile – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				NewsCorp going Mobile    			


NYT has a story on News Corp, owner of Fox TV, describing their emphasis on cellular phones or on creating mobile content.
In what is the boldest venture yet by an established media company to insinuate itself into millions of cellphones, the News Corporation has created a mobile entertainment store called Mobizzo and a production studio to focus exclusively on developing cellphone entertainment in much the same way that 20th Century Fox creates movies and television.
What they came up with seems simple: text alerts from a gossip column in a British tabloid, The Sun, and kung fu movie posters and yoga and meditation music from the Star media group in Hong Kong.
But News Corporation executives hope that the store, which is to make its debut today, will capitalize on a nascent but rapidly growing appetite for video, graphics and music on cellphones. 
What will be killer applications in this space?  I often wonder what is really something that I would really want to get on my Treo or Nokia?  Will it be sports highlights?  Personal events depicted in phots or videos? Breaking News?  Yoga lessons (I have never been in yoga but who knows?)? Or some thing completely new that we have not yet thought about!!



By Ramesh |
    				February 27, 2006 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Future Surveillance
New Ask.com →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


