https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/new-askcom








New Ask.com – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				New Ask.com    			


I played with the new ask.com.  It has really become new — many features from Ask Jeeves are gone and the new site is much improved in many respects.  I particularly liked their maps.  You can get driving and walking directions.  More importantly, the simple animation of your directions is neat feature — it animates your driving direction.  Simple but useful in my opinion because you get an idea of how you are going to get there.
Is this the signal that ASK.COM wants to challenge some of the biggies?



By Ramesh |
    				February 27, 2006 |
    				             		Prospecting Information |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← NewsCorp going Mobile
Creators, synthesizers, and consumers →



			2 thoughts on “New Ask.com”		




Rohith V March 6, 2006 at 9:14 am 

Yes its good. But they look so similar to Google. Found another post who spoke about the same http://jeremy.zawodny.com/blog/archives/006385.html








SEO Philadelphia June 26, 2008 at 2:05 am 

Yes, quite good features, especially I like that peel function, and you can select different themes. Things are going bit slow for ask.com to challenge the big dogs but one can’t ignore the fact of increasing popularity of sites like ask.com
Every big fellow on the internet wants to increase the traffic and for this they need to do something extra which no one other is doing.  So with a combined effort, these people are making things easier for common man.!







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


