https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/computing3o








Computing3.o – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Computing3.o    			


Last year at the Where 2.0 I gave a talk that I discovered today — Thanks to Blinkx Pico.  Here is the link to the talk that was titled Computing 3.0.
So Pico is already doing implicit search for me, thanks to Blinkx.



By Ramesh |
    				March 7, 2006 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Blinkx introduces Implicit Search
Cisco and Video Surveillance →



			One thought on “Computing3.o”		




Suranga March 7, 2006 at 11:52 am 

Thanks for the kind posts (plural!) on our new product.  We’re really very excited to bring something we think is entirely different to the (already very noisy) world of search.
As always, though, the proof of the pudding is in the tasting and that’s why I was really happy to see that, within a couple of hours of use, you found your way to a link you wouldn’t have thought of searching for or found through normal keyword search.  That’s exactly what Pico is all about.
Keyword search is important and works well … but only for certain tasks.  Every time you interact with a piece of content or information on your computer, there are hundreds of related pieces of content out there.  Normally, that web of related stuff is hidden … you have to know where to get it or decide to do an explicit search to uncover it.  Pico works by constantly reading what you’re reading and using its understanding of that to expose that web of related stuff … we call that web the Latent Web; Pico exposes the Latent Web.
Anyway, enough proselytizing for one post!  Great to hear you’ve found Pico useful, hope others stumble their way to our site through your blog.
-S.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


