https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/cisco-and-video-surveillance








Cisco and Video Surveillance – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Cisco and Video Surveillance    			


When you read that Cisco bought a video surveillance company , you may think this to be strange.  In fact, this is really very logical.  As stated in the above article by a Cisco Vice President:
“If you can digitize all video, you can record it, timestamp it and instantaneously get access to video across the IP network much more efficiently than having to send an actual tape,” said Marthin De Beer, a vice president in Cisco’s Emerging Market Technologies Group. “It also lets people coordinating a disaster halfway across the country to get live video feeds from cameras connected to an IP network, so they can see what’s happening.”
All indications are that video is becoming a major media compnent.  With increasing bandwidth, video will dominate all media components, including text, as it did in old fashined media.  Movies became more popular than novels, and TV News became more popular than Newspapers.  But those things were only for produced media.  Wait until people start using it for general application which will bring the currently popular ‘long tail’ at the center of this revolution.  I can think of many interesting applications of unproduced video in our life.  It would be nice to collect a list of such applications and distribute those among video enthusiasts, both in application and technology areas.



By Ramesh |
    				March 8, 2006 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Computing3.o
IPTV and EventWeb →



			One thought on “Cisco and Video Surveillance”		




video seuveillance August 21, 2006 at 1:06 am 

try this tool of video seuveillance.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


