https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/novatiums-sub-100-netpc








Novatium’s sub $100 NetPC – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Novatium’s sub $100 NetPC    			


Novatium announced it at PC — I am delighted to see this coming out of India.   This is a carefully thought device that will be useful not only in emerging countries but in niche applications in developed countries also.  Most important — many people have been talking about doing this, but Novatium has done it.  Way to do it, Rajesh.
(By the way, Rajesh is a very good friend but not a relative — though I’d have loved it if he were.)
 Novatium’s $100 thin client PC by ZDNet‘s Dan Farber — At PC Forum Novatium Solutions demoed its $100 PC appliance (without keyboard or display, which adds about $75) for emerging markets. The Nova netPC and Nova netTV are based on thin client (server-based, zero administration for users) and mobile phone technology. “We have the guts of mobile phone and use the business model of phone industry,” […]



By Ramesh |
    				March 15, 2006 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Shortage of Internet Media Companies!!
New Media Business →



			3 thoughts on “Novatium’s sub $100 NetPC”		




Dmitri March 15, 2006 at 6:52 pm 

Do you think India has the bandwidth today to support this kind of “network centric-thin client” model of computing ? 
Or is it primarily targeted at corporate houses …allowing them to centralize their computing facilities?








Ramesh  Post authorMarch 16, 2006 at 9:09 am 

Today — no; but tomorrow — Yes.  High bandwidth connectivity is increasing rapidly in India and is likely to increase rapidly in other emerging parts of the world also.  ANother important thing is that availability of such devices will be very synergistic and will accelerate availability of high bandwidth connectivity in these countries.








karun roongta November 12, 2007 at 2:44 pm 

I really  have doubt about ur idea of NET PC.  India, where people do not pay for software they use  even  they use, and falling price of pc where 125 dollars u get a workable second hand  machine  finally with loathes of pirated  software available its really difficult to commit them for 10 dollar monthly recurring charge .







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


