https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/improving-speech-recognition-for-video-indexing








Improving Speech Recognition for Video Indexing – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Improving Speech Recognition for Video Indexing    			


Today I played with PODZINGER, a company powered by BBN’s speech recognition technology.  This company is a spin-off of BBN.
Speech recognition has been improving and is a good step in audio and video indxing.  PODZINGER is different from other sites in its coverage of podcasts.  The quality of speech in podcasts is not as high as in broadcast News video and audio.  This is definitely a good step in making podcasts more useful.  From technology perspective it is a good step in showing that application of speech recognition are incereasing and slowly extending to lower quality audio.
Their website says
Podcasts have been subjected to the same primitive search through categorization … until now.  PODZINGER looks inside podcasts, not just the metadata, letting you search podcasts in the same way that you search for anything else on the web. 
When you type in a word or terms, PODZINGER not only finds the relevant podcasts, but also highlights the segment of the audio in which they occurred. By clicking anywhere on the results, the audio will begin to play just where you clicked.  There are also controls that let you back up, pause, or forward through the podcast.  Or you can download the entire podcast. 



By Ramesh |
    				March 21, 2006 |
    				             		Experiential Computing, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Watershed Event for Web
Binford in Bangalore →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


