https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/freezen-in-time-or








Frozen in time or … – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Frozen in time or …    			


I am now in Bangalore.  I am staying at a new hotel called IndiOne — they just changed their name so they will now be Ginger.  Very interesting place.  At Taj, I had to pay more than $300/night, here it is less than $30/night.  This is a basic hotel a new concept.  All basic needs are met — and is quite clean and neat.  No frills, just very basic things.  Good Wi-Fi thru Tata indicom.  I am posting this using this while uploading some pictures to Flickr.
A very interesting thing — the Z TV here has completely different advertisements.  Not a single advertise of any Baba or somebody you can call to get all your problems solved.  USA version has more than 50% commercials related to those help people.  When talking to some friends about this, they all think that this only reflects that US based NRIs are frozen in time.  I have difficulty accepting that because if these were the people who depended on Babas to solve their problems when they were in India, they would not be so successful in their edcational and professional life.  So there is something deeper behind that.  The fact that most friends — who are well educated and successful professionals in California — were not surprised about this is surprising to me.
It is always interesting to see how rapidly Bangalore is growing.  This hotel is in their Industrial area where more buildings are under construction than are constructed.  I think I will take out my camera and post some pictures of construction on Flickr.



By Ramesh |
    				March 26, 2006 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Too much travel
Seraja Product development →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


