https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/seraja-product-development








Seraja Product development – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Seraja Product development    			


SEraja team is making a very good progress.  As usualy in product development, there are many things need to be done but I found the discussion reviewing the progress and near-future plans very good.  The team is passionate, willing to learn, and talented.  
The product development attitude in India is definitely very different now than it used to be say 8 years ago.  In my last effort to be involved in product development with a very famous company in 1998, it was a very different environment.  The team was talented but passion and initiative was not there.  Of course there are management differences but in this case I felt that it is more the attitude of people.
Talking about that, the change in attitude is very well reflected in a poster that I saw in Banglaore advertising for jobs.  This poster shows the changing attitude and the power of the Flat World.



By Ramesh |
    				March 27, 2006 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Frozen in time or …
WiFi at Mumbai Airport →



			2 thoughts on “Seraja Product development”		




Danny February 1, 2008 at 12:52 pm 

Yes as you mentioned the product development attitude in India has definitely changed and teams lack passion and involvement








Outsourced Product Development March 10, 2008 at 4:50 am 

I agree with Danny ?







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


