https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/wifi-at-mumbai-airport








WiFi at Mumbai Airport – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				WiFi at Mumbai Airport    			


I am posting this sitting at Mumbai Airport Lounge in front of Gate 5 and have WiFi connection to post it.  I am really pleasntly surprised.  My flight is late and I was going to prepare my presentation.  Just casually thought of checking availability of WiFi and found to commercial options.  It is expensive — about $6/hour — but not bad.
This was a fitting end to my very good India trip — a very busy one too.  It is clear how fast India is catching up.  Of course, since the starting point was low, it is going to take good amount of time, but the feeling that things are progressing rapidly is very satisfying.



By Ramesh |
    				March 29, 2006 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		9 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Seraja Product development
German Memories →



			9 thoughts on “WiFi at Mumbai Airport”		




Navin Quadros May 23, 2006 at 11:24 pm 

Hi Ramesh,
Indeed India is catching up. With the rapid growth in the economy, the increased focus on infrastructure initiatives such as WiFi is essentially demand driven.
Though I disagree with the $6 bit. WiFi access in the Mumbai Airport is roughly $1.50 an hour, as was charged to me. That works out much cheaper and faster than a conventional dial-up, not to mention the ease of mobility.
I’m sure there is many a satisfied smile on the faces of business visitors to India. 
Navin








dipesh badani June 5, 2006 at 2:52 am 

good








Vishal December 26, 2006 at 4:45 am 

How do you pay for this service? What speed connection did you get? I am planning to fly in a few days. I need to know if this is a prepaid thing, or can I just pay cash and buy it somewhere at the airport, or if I can use my credit card. Your help is appreciated. Thanks.








Ramesh  Post authorDecember 27, 2006 at 9:30 pm 

This was using credit card on the International departure side.  On the domestic airport, you buy a prepaid card and use it.








Dirk January 21, 2007 at 11:32 pm 

Hello,
I have an website in germany for prepaid services. Do You know the name of the company who offer this service? In the moment I collect all the WIFI Prepaid Services in the world.
Thx a lot and bye Dirk








Trevor August 29, 2007 at 5:00 am 

I found FREE wi-fi in the international airport, by the check-in counters. On the far side, there is a cafe that sells food and has computers for internet. I sat across from that, opened my laptop, and found a few networks. One of them was free. It wasn’t fast (by american standards) but it was FREE.








Sony kalloor May 22, 2008 at 8:49 pm 

Yeah true the wi fi in mumbai airport was a surprise . The free ones as usual and expected were of poor quality.  How ever the charges service were of real good quality , especially the tata one.








Pmobile December 18, 2008 at 11:20 am 

Good to hear this! 🙂
FREE wi-fi should be apply at all airport.








Aeropuerto de Gerona September 7, 2009 at 1:44 am 

Here in Spain and to be more specific on girona Airport there is high speed wifi and broad band and they are free.But i think one should avoid such places unless necessary because at such public spaces someone can access our system too.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


