https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/german-memories








German Memories – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				German Memories    			


I arrived in Munich after delayed flights that caused me to miss my workshop talk.  Good thing was that I could meet Simone Santini and spend a nice evening catching up with him.  We discussed lots of technical things but more important was just to spend some time with him.  He is a bright person with very academic brain.  His senso of humour and quest for knowledge make him a nice person to spend some time with.
Today was possibly the first little free time for me to reminisce about Germany.  I spent 20 months here in 1976-78.  Things have definitely changed in 30 years, but in general it is the same country.  I like the orderliness, cleanliness, and general discipline.  Though it does appear that discipline has become a bit slacker compared to what it used to be.  The most surprising thing was that I saw several beggars on street, at least 4.  This really surprised me.  ANother thing that was a bit unexpected is several telephone shops for people to make calls.  It was good for me because it allowed me to call at reasonable rates because I don’t have mobile phone and hotel phones are usually terribly expensive.  Quite a few big Internet centers also.  This is different from USA.  Definitely good for tourists.  ANd yes, McDonalds are everywhere.  Did not see Starbucks, however.
I find that my German has gone the same way as my Marathi and Bengali.  I used to speak fluent German but now I can not understand or speak.  I think it will take staying here for some time to get it back.  May not be a bad idea, bur definitely an unlikely one.  
I am happy that tomorrow morning I am going back.  WIll be home tomorrow evening.



By Ramesh |
    				March 31, 2006 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← WiFi at Mumbai Airport
Video Search: Presenting results →



			One thought on “German Memories”		




Don Lapre Lover December 17, 2006 at 1:56 pm 

Time is surely fleeting but we have some uncountable good memories in our minds. That is the  best part.
Don Lapre Lover
laura@lauraglydaband.com







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


