http://www.ics.uci.edu/computing/services/msdnaa_faq.php






    Bren School Computing Support    [Support Wiki]
  





















skip to content






          [[Bren School Computing Support]]
        

Support Wiki 


Trace: • Bren School Computing Support 



Show pagesource 

Recent ChangesSitemapLog In 


Search 



Table of Contents


Bren School Computing Support



ICS Wiki Pages


Remote Access
Forgotten ICS Password
Contacting ICS Computing Support Helpdesk
Deliveries

All Deliveries
Medium to Large Deliveries (i.e. pallets, carrier deliveries)






Bren School Computing Support


ICS Wiki Pages


Welcome to the Information and Computer Sciences Support Wiki pages!  Access to most of the information in these ICS Wiki pages are restricted to ICS affiliates. Please make sure to login using an ICS username/password if prompted. 


 Promoted Articles 


 Check out Jupyterhub @ ICS

 2022 Announcements 

 2022 Maintenance Schedule

 Lastpass Enterprise and other Password Management Tools



 Past Promoted Articles


 2021 2021 Announcements

 Spring Quarter 2021 Maintenance Schedule

 2021 Maintenance Schedule

 Winter Quarter 2021 Maintenance Schedule



 Supporting the Instructional, Research, and Administrative Missions of the Bren School of Information and Computer Science.


 Location: Information and Computer Science Bldg. 302 Suite 346 Irvine Ca, 92697-3425

 Hours: Monday - Friday 8 am to 12 pm, 1 pm to 5 pm (excluding University holidays)

 Phone: 949-824-4222

 Email: helpdesk@ics.uci.edu 

 System Operations(Sysops)



Computing Support operates a Helpdesk to ensure that requests are tracked and completed in a timely manner.  The Helpdesk should be consulted with problems regarding ICS accounts, accessing Bren School ICS systems, supplied/supported software, and when planning to purchase new systems.  For more information, please send an email to helpdesk@ics.uci.edu


Remote Access


 Connecting to your Windows Desktop @ ICS remotely or from home.

 UCI Zoom Tele Presence

 Using Zoom @ UCI at ICS



Forgotten ICS Password


 Your ICS username is the same as your UCInetid.  

 If you need to reset your ICS account password, go to https://password.ics.uci.edu.

 Read the password rules, then click on the top on either Question or Email  

 Answer either your secret question or request a password reset link, which will be valid for 60 minutes.

 If you need additional help, email helpdesk@ics.uci.edu with your information, a description of the problem, and/or relevant screenshots.



Contacting ICS Computing Support Helpdesk


The ICS Computing Support Group should be contacted by email at helpdesk@ics.uci.edu and by phone at (949) 824-4222.  Both the Helpdesk email and phone are monitored around the clock. Using these contact methods helps us provide a quicker response to trouble tickets and requests.


For ICS-planned maintenance, check our calendar:


 ICS Maintenance Calendar 



Please note:  If you believe that there is a problem with email delivery or that an email message to Helpdesk may not be processed by the ICS email servers, please call (949) 824-4222.


Deliveries


All Deliveries


Deliveries that are going to the ICS Computing Support group should be shipped to the following address:

  __Your Name__ c/o ICS Computing Support Group
  Information and Computer Science I
  Building 302
  Suite 346
  Irvine, Ca 92697-3425

Medium to Large Deliveries (i.e. pallets, carrier deliveries)


Medium to Larger deliveries will need to be delivered to the Engineering Tower Loading Dock and scheduled with the computing support group one day prior.  Scheduling the delivery allows us to ensure that someone is available to accept the delivery and transport it to the data center.  Carriers may not be able to complete unscheduled deliveries.


When making large purchases that may need to be delivered via the loading dock, please provide special directions for the carrier.


Directions to the Engineering Tower loading docks


 The loading docks are attached to Engineering Tower (Building 303 in quadrant 6E on the Campus Map.)

 Closest cross streets are Peltason Drive and Engineering Service Road.

 Loading docks are at the end of Engineering Service Road.

 Google Map Entry for the Engeering Tower

 Google Map GPS Coordinates:   33.6445945,-117.8406228,19.96z









start.txt · Last modified: 2022/09/27 10:06 by pnimsomb 





Show pagesourceOld revisions 

Media ManagerBack to top 














