https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/worship-tech








Worship Tech – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Worship Tech    			


I always believed that HiTech can play a very important role in sprituality and religion.  This is a win-win situation because if used correctly it can bring the benefits of religion and spirituality to people even in remote places and at convenient times.  So I was pleased to see the trend outlined by Greg Sandoval in his piece where he points out:
An illustration of the market’s growing clout came this week at the National Association of Broadcasters 2006 electronic media conference. For the first time, NAB dedicated an exhibit area to tech and consumer electronics companies that are catering to churches.
The titles of some of the conference sessions included “Radio Frequency Interference & The Church Sound System,” “Worship Software to Expand Your Media Presentation” and “Microphones & Religious Applications.” 
And this is only for one religion.



By Ramesh |
    				April 28, 2006 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		5 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Responsive to customser
Multimedia Search in France →



			5 thoughts on “Worship Tech”		




windows hosting August 16, 2007 at 8:05 am 

Technology should always give some respect to religion for its growth.








web designer September 28, 2007 at 11:19 pm 

“This is a win-win situation because if used correctly it can bring the benefits of religion and spirituality to people even in remote places and at convenient times.”
I am totally agree with you. It matters a lot, how you use it. Great post, inspiring thoughts. Thanks.








eve isk April 16, 2008 at 10:21 pm 

I am clever








Tony Parker August 28, 2009 at 7:59 am 

Hi Ramesh,
I fully agree. The visual and audio of Worship Service creates a more impacting and engaging experience. It has been my passion since 2002 when I was director of IT for a large 5000+ Church in San Diego.
I even started a blog on Worship Software for ministries around the world.
Blessings,
Tony Parker








A website designer August 28, 2009 at 10:47 am 

One of the most popular iTunes podcasts was a vicar who used his Sunday sermon from a church in England, United Kingdom. An incredible use of technology for the good.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


