https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/better-search-through-people








Better Search Through People – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Better Search Through People    			


As a part of my course on Next Generation Search Systems, Bradley Horowitz of Yahoo gave a talk on the future of Web Search.    His presentation was very interesting.  The most important message of the presentation is captured in the image shown here.

Current Page Rank algorithms could be considered recommendation of web masters.  Would you consider that recommendation more important or the recommendation of your friends and family more important?  Well that depends on application.  So an important point is that in different situation you want to use different people’s recommendation in search and that’s the behavior you want to see in search engines.  This could be done through social search or as the message above says: Better Search Through People.
I like the basic sound of this.  Now the trick is to implement this and make it happen on the top of the basic search engines.  I find it difficult to do this independent of the basic ‘keyword based’ search engines.  Does that mean that on top of the basic search engines, one will have to build many different layers to bring in different applications and different relevence for different users.
Sounds interesting.



By Ramesh |
    				May 1, 2006 |
    				             		Prospecting Information |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Multimedia Search in France
3-D Mash-ups →



			One thought on “Better Search Through People”		




Windows Hosting September 3, 2007 at 4:53 am 

Nowadays there are lots of different search engines in the market but no one is so powerful to beat Google.I guess it will take another 100 years to eliminate the Google factor from the keyword search.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


