https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/changing-academic-climate








Changing Academic Climate – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Changing Academic Climate    			


Wallm Street has a story ‘Once Collegial, Research Schools now Mean Business’ representing changing climate at research universities.  Though the story talks about a professor from Arizona State, this is no exception.  The situation is similar at many places.
Academic climate has changed and it is likely to get worse before it turns around.  In addition to funding situation, another difficult situation is reduction in number of quality students coming from the two major suppliers of graduate students to USA — India and China.  This is what is leading to the innovation crisis in USA.  



By Ramesh |
    				May 4, 2006 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← 3-D Mash-ups
Innertube — a new CBS online channel →



			2 thoughts on “Changing Academic Climate”		




ResumesExperts May 10, 2006 at 6:25 am 

I hear for the first time  that the amount of foreign students( namely  India  and China) has been decreased. What are the reasons, can you please enlighten me? On the other hand I do not  think that  even if it is so, it will affect the innnovation process in the US.   Maybe reduction of graduate students’ flow  is a temporary sign and  the country has  other sources of ” golden “brains for innovative ideas. Thanks again.








Windows Hosting September 3, 2007 at 5:29 am 

Well the immigration process for students is getting complicated day by day. After several attempts to seek Visa, student are now finding it easy to go to countries like NewZeland, Australia,Canada,Germany and Singapore. This results in decrease of students to USA.IMO things should be kept sinple if you want to generate good revenue.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


