https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/latent-web








Latent Web – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Latent Web    			


Suranga Chandratillake gave a talk under the Next Generation Search Systems Seminar Series today.  He talked about Latent Web — the web created due to implied links rather than the explicit links created by users.  He argued that there are many ways to detect such implicit links and sites like Flickr are doing that thru tags and other social mechanisms.  Clearly there are many ways to detect these links — most of them are definitely difficult ones.  But the web that gets created due to such implicit links will be a lot more powerful than the current explicit link based web.
Implicit links are lot more powerful when one considers events.  Events are inherently more linked with other events thru multiple types of links — spatial, temporal, causal, and informational.   In fact much of analysis in many fields is to identify and recognize these implicit links among events.  James Burke’s analysis and Freakonomics are two books that emphasize insights gained due to identification of such implicit links.
Here is a picture from his talk emphasizing Latent Web.




By Ramesh |
    				May 8, 2006 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Innertube — a new CBS online channel
Future of News →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


