https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/future-of-news








Future of News – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Future of News    			


Dave Pettit has a an interesting story about the future of News — how News should be in 2016.  
I feel that an important point is missing about News in most discussions.  News as it exists in Newspapers, radio, and TV is report on events.  The focus is on reports not on events.  All media is concerned on how to get these reports and howe to make them interesting.  I believe that things will become a lot more exciting and insightful and a better user experience if we started thinking of events as primary and reports as a means or a perspective on the event.  This will allow people to look at related events, evolving events, and effects of events in cleaner and crisper way.



By Ramesh |
    				May 10, 2006 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Latent Web
Real Time Maps →



			3 thoughts on “Future of News”		




Arjun Ram May 10, 2006 at 1:55 pm 

Please check out http://www.taazza.com/. This is one of the founding principles of Taazza.
*disclaimer* I am one of the founders of Taazza








Ramesh  Post authorMay 10, 2006 at 5:29 pm 

I am looking forward to exploring your site.  When is it going to be available for me to play so I can see what you are bringing to the field.








Arjun Ram May 11, 2006 at 11:28 am 

We are diligently working on getting an alpha out to people, I shall keep you in mind and send an invite out. We would love to get some early feedback from you folks. Stay tuned!







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


