https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/clickable-video-ads








Clickable Video ads – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Clickable Video ads    			


WSJ has a story ” ‘Clickable’  video ads catch on” about linking objects in a popular video to advertisements.  This technology has been talked about for long time but was not easy to implement on TV.  With video on Internet, things are changing.  As the article points out:
To be sure, giving consumers the ability to click on a video image in a favorite TV show — say, Teri Hatcher’s sweater from an episode of “Desperate Housewives” — and instantly buy the identical item online has been touted by technology companies for years without results. The technology has never taken off because few people own TV sets capable of doing so, and because networks haven’t made offering this type of product placement a priority.
Still, networks are putting more emphasis on the technology as they scramble for a bigger piece of the ad money that is starting to flow away from traditional television and toward the Internet. Indeed, both networks are offering “clickable video” as part of their pitches to advertisers in the “upfront” ad-selling presentations that began this week. In the upfront market, networks sell the bulk of their ad time for the coming TV season.
The arrival of clickable video on network Web sites is courtesy of Avant Interactive, a closely held Los Angeles company. Avant says its technology works on video downloads, streaming video and DVDs. In addition to use on home computers, it eventually will be available for use with digital television set-top boxes, allowing consumers to use their remote controls to save frames of video and select objects within them for more information. The technology that works with set-top boxes is built, but not deployed to consumers yet.



By Ramesh |
    				May 18, 2006 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Micrsoft in enterprise search
Second Anniversary of Freedom from Cancer →



			3 thoughts on “Clickable Video ads”		




rickshaw March 16, 2007 at 12:02 pm 

Microsoft recently released clickable video with Kohl’s http://entertainment.msn.com/videohyperlink/kohls








Nick July 4, 2007 at 1:03 am 

Hi,
great, nice to hear it!.








cayla romain August 30, 2007 at 3:56 am 

IDSide is the first agency specialized in clickable video
http://www.lorealcannes.co.uk  live fome cannes / today’s video
http://www.fashionandstars.com
http://www.quelle.fr
and of course     http://www.idside.fr
the advertising world is changing with IDSide!







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


