https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/visiting-ann-arbor








Visiting Ann Arbor – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Visiting Ann Arbor    			


I am visiting Ann Arbor for the long weekend.  We lived in Ann Arbor about 11 years from 1982 to 1993.  We made many strong long term lasting relationships here.  So spending a few leisurely days meeting friends is likely to be very enjoyable experience.  Sudha and Neil are with me.
We already met Pallab and Meena Bhattacharya, Ishwar and Suman Sethi, Usha Jindal, Nancy O’Brien-Bodo, Kurt and Gran Skifstad, Tom, Marci, Jason and Emily  Waldinger.  It was so touching to meet these people and brought in so many old memories,  Particularly touching was to see Neil’s reaction to meeting his childhood buddies Jason and Emily.
We have tomorrow and part of the day after to meet friends.  Tomorrow we will also attend a wedding reception.
Another interesting thing was to listen to Kurt Skifstad’s ideas for his new company in Search space and see a demo of early concepts implemented by George Kulik.  These ideas are interesting and could lead to some nice advances in search.  In fact I see they taking the idea of Steering Wheel for Search one step forward — in fact some ideas related to clustering combined with their ideas could make some interesting navigational approaches in search.  I will talk about their ideas at apprpriate time.



By Ramesh |
    				May 27, 2006 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← $100 laptop from OLPC
Visual Search: Challenge and status →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


