https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/personal-media-management-pmm








Personal Media Management (PMM) – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Personal Media Management (PMM)    			


If you are like me then you have lots of photos on many computers and on some on line photo sites.  This does cause confusion — even ignoring the storage increase.  Digital cameras and phones are making taking photos so easy and then it is so easy to upload it to your computers and now to several photo sites.  But even after that, I find that the photos that I am looking for are always at the other place.
What is needed is a good personal media management (PMM) system.  And it will be great if this system helped not only with photos but also with videos, music, maybe special documents, and anyother items that we find important and can digitize — of course will be great if it helped in real world too.
We are all familiar with different photo sites from Flickr to Picasa and others.  But I came to know about this site that brings a narrow but interesting functionality — synchronizing your photos.  I am eager to play with the site — www.sharpcast.com.  Then I saw the announcement of the new Yahoo Photos also.  So more things to play and explore.  I will share my experiences with you.
None of these sites provide enough functionality, however, to make it enough useful to think of putting all my media at one place.  And it is becoming painful to manage all my media at so many different places.
What I don’t know, however, is what functionality I want to see in this PMM site that I will use to put all my media and share my media as I may see fit. Since currently there is no site that gives even partial functionality, I don’t have any idea what minimal functionality am I expecting from it.  Do I want editing, organizing, accessing, sharing, priniting, remixing, ….
Have you ever thought about what you would like to see in such a site?  If you have and don’t mind sharing, I’d love to hear your thoughts.



By Ramesh |
    				June 8, 2006 |
    				             		Experiential Computing, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Video as primary media
New ‘Channels’ →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


