https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/new-channels








New ‘Channels’ – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				New ‘Channels’    			


 Channels on TV used to be broadcast channels in which a company decided what the users should want to see and programmed accordingly.  Accordingly, we all became couch potatoes and selected a channel and watched it.  When multiple channels became commonplace — we started channel switching and then channel surfing (particularly to avoid commercials).
Now the term channel is starting to take a different meaning.  Initially it started by video sites — currently the most popular Youtube — offering special interest channels to which you could subscribe.  And now they are taking it further — bringin in more internet culture.  On the Web, you are simultaneouly both producer and consumer.  So in terms of channels you could be both a couch-potato as well as a channel-broadcaster.  Moreover you could be remixing contents from different producers — or even from different channels — and producing your own branded channel.
Well it did happen to text so why not to video?



By Ramesh |
    				June 9, 2006 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Personal Media Management (PMM)
Vloggercon →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


