https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/greece-vacation








Greece Vacation – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Greece Vacation    			


I am back in USA after attending a conference and a mini-vacation in Greece.
Greece is a very interesting country — only 10M population, but because of its history and current name it sounds much bigger.  It is definitely a fun place to visit.  Lot of history — many interesting monuments to see.  But equally important is the fact that it is a fun place.  Islands are beautiful and very touristy.  Yes, for vacations I like to be at a place which has lots of nice amenities and food and people.  And Greece offered that in Athens as well as at its islands.  I visited Poros, Hydra, Aegina, and Crete.  Wanted to go to Santorini and Mykonas but could not get air tickets to be back in time to connect to my flight so had to decide to visit those in the next trip.
My wife Sudha is vegetarian.  At some places this becomes a problem — not in Greece.  They have lots of vegetarian items on their menu.
This trip also gave me a chance to test my physical situation.  After my cancer, this was the first time when I put my body to keep up with sight-seeing interests of Sudha and found that I can do more than I thought I could.  This may be a bad thing because Sudha likes to pack many things and I like to relax.  So I should pretend that I am able to do much less than I really can.
I am on my way to attend a few meetings in Washington DC now.  ANd then back home for a few days before going to India.
Interested in seeing some pictures from my trip?  Visit
http://www.flickr.com/photos/rameshjain/



By Ramesh |
    				June 26, 2006 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Words: The BoW
Giving Back to Society: Gates and Buffett →



			2 thoughts on “Greece Vacation”		




Alex June 23, 2007 at 7:06 am 

Glad you liked Greece.
It is truly a very special and unique country with so much to do and see.
No matter how many times you visit, there are always new places to visit and sites to see.
Alex
http://www.aroundgreece.com








Yannis Larios July 31, 2009 at 8:08 am 

Thanks for this sincere review of Greece. I am glad that you liked our country! I am sure you will have the chance to visit more of it in the future!
To entice you for another trip, I kindly invite you to my photo website for some Greece photos.  Please also do try watching the relaxing Greece photo slideshows found on the same link! Hope they will convey the mood of Greece.
Best regards and you are always welcome!
Yannis Larios
http://www.larios.gr







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


