https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/phone-as-a-guide-in-real-world








Phone as a Guide in Real World – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Phone as a Guide in Real World    			


It was going to happen — but did not anticipate that it will happen so soon.
Cell phones will use GPS to bridge the cyberspace with the physical world — a nice story in NYT today.
If you stand on a street corner in Tokyo today you can point a specialized cellphone at a hotel, a restaurant or a historical monument, and with the press of a button the phone will display information from the Internet describing the object you are looking at.
The new service is made possible by the efforts of three Japanese companies and GeoVector, a small American technology firm, and it represents a missing link between cyberspace and the physical world. 
The phones combine satellite-based navigation, precise to within 30 feet or less, with an electronic compass to provide a new dimension of orientation. Connect the device to the Internet and it is possible to overlay the point-and-click simplicity of a computer screen on top of the real world.



By Ramesh |
    				June 28, 2006 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		5 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← VACE2 Close out workshop
Web Video and Cable →



			5 thoughts on “Phone as a Guide in Real World”		




reader June 29, 2006 at 1:43 am 

any updates on seraja ?








Satellite phone reviews December 30, 2006 at 7:09 am 

I didn’t believe this will happen in my lifetime!








satellitephonesworld April 21, 2007 at 8:56 am 

It would be a great feture for NO EXTRA CHARGE on any phone!!
But I would not pay for an add-on service.
Regards
A








Gary Shannon December 17, 2008 at 5:53 pm 

i often find myslef using the maps and gps on my iphone for location services… great tool.. so i can imagine this happening pretty soon








James Helliwell January 2, 2009 at 12:48 pm 

I sail around the Caribbean and my phone is indispensable for downloading emails and its always cool to compare what the phone says and what the onboard yacht gps says. Sometimes it says my boat is on land!!







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


