https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/web-video-and-cable








Web Video and Cable – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Web Video and Cable    			


WSJ has an article Cable takes on Web Video.  It discusses how Cable companies, particularly Comcast, are aggressively pursuing policies related to web video.
It says:
The initiatives are part of the cable industry’s efforts to stay in front of the radical changes the Internet is making in the television landscape. The burgeoning supply of movies, TV programs and other video content on the Web has sparked a race among major media, entertainment and technology companies to develop new businesses while protecting their old ones.
But the broadband video field is already getting crowded, and startups like YouTube Inc. are coming out of nowhere to take leading positions. As a result, it’s not certain that cable companies can emerge as top players. They lack consumer brand recognition outside their service areas, and they have often been late to embrace new technology. Their success will depend in large part on their ability to strike deals with content owners like Walt Disney Co., which have their own Web sites and may not want to share. 
I am unable to comment on this (I am currently advising Comcast in this area) but can only say that things are happening in video space.  And this space will see lots of innovations — technical and business.



By Ramesh |
    				June 29, 2006 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Phone as a Guide in Real World
SEraja Updates →



			2 thoughts on “Web Video and Cable”		




mc1 June 30, 2006 at 4:53 am 

On my blog, I show that Youtube’s popularity as a TV show is actually between that of ‘American Inventor’ and ’24’. Its barely top 20 among TV shows so is not going to take over the world just yet.








Ramesh  Post authorJuly 2, 2006 at 6:01 am 

Your numbers seem right.  However, the comparison is not fair — YouTube is not in the established TV space, but in rapidly emerging On Line Video space.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


