https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/search-infrastructure








Search Infrastructure – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Search Infrastructure    			


NYT had an interesting article on Google’s inventor culture.  An interesting little known fact about Google is:
“Google is as much about infrastructure as it is about the search engine,” said Martin Reynolds, an analyst with the Gartner Group. “They are building an enormous computing resource on a scale that is almost unimaginable.” He said he believed that Google was the world’s fourth-largest maker of computer servers, after Dell, Hewlett-Packard and I.B.M.
It is going against the common wisdom:
At some point you have to ask yourself what is your core business,” said Kevin Timmons, Yahoo’s vice president for operations. “Are you going to design your own router, or are you going to build the world’s most popular Web site? It is very difficult to do both.”
Google, in fact, has decided it will do both. In many ways, it still has the head of a graduate-school project grafted onto the body of a multinational corporation. The central tenet of its strategy is that its growing cadre of world-class computer scientists can design a network of machines that can store and process more information more efficiently than anyone else.



By Ramesh |
    				July 5, 2006 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← July 4th
Immersive World Cup Football →



			One thought on “Search Infrastructure”		




Gomer July 9, 2006 at 11:33 am 

I think Google is gettting its fingers in too many pies.
First, I must say it is genius to be able to use cheap, unreliable server to build a totally reliable network, lightning fast network.  But where does it stop.
I recently read rumors that Google was perhaps planning its own silicon chip. Now that is probably going to far when there is so much advancement yet to be made in search.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


