https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/uci-cap-council-on-academic-personnel








UCI CAP: Council on Academic Personnel – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				UCI CAP: Council on Academic Personnel    			


Today a dinner was hosted at Dele Ogunseitan’s residence for the 2005-2006 UCI CAP members.  Since I served on this committee for this year, I attended the dinner.
This committee helps university administration in their decisions related to appointment and promotions of academic personnel.  It has representatives from different schools representing various disciplines at the university.  Usually I don’t like to serve on personnel related committees, but I accepted to serve on this to see how different sections of a large university think and evaluate their people.  Ultimately, the reward system determines the character of an organization.  So by seeing how different departments evaluate their people I will get some insights into the way people think in those areas.  And it was a very rewarding experience.
First thing that impressed me was how rigorous and careful the members of CAP are in evaluating each case.  Each case is analyzed carefully in all aspects considering the norms used by the home department and the existing standards in that field.  CAP knows that it is dealing with people’s carrers as well as it has the responsibility to build quality standards of the university.  It does have a seriou role and it takes it very seriously.
It was a rewarding year in terms of learning about the university and its different departments.  Members usually have three year terms.  UCI CAP has total 11 members.  This was my first year to serve.  It does require significant time and effort, but has been an interesting exposition.



By Ramesh |
    				July 22, 2006 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Digital Photo Albums
Consistency VS Wow →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


