https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/increasing-video-apps








Increasing Video apps – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Increasing Video apps    			


Video has been in entrepreneurial activities a lot lately.  Interesting companies are emerging and big media and related companies are struggling to decide how they want to deal with the rapid changes that are happening.  An interesting article in this area is in knowledge@wharton.  This article discusses the state of emerging companies and talks about fuzzy business models.  Some important points mentioned are quoted here.
So why is the growth of online video on fast forward now? For starters, broadband access is prevalent and media companies — including ABC, CBS and NBC — are jumping headfirst into digital distribution. Whitehouse also notes that amateur content — consumers sharing their own personal videos on the web — has ballooned as well. Indeed, prior to these deals, sites like YouTube and Guba presented mostly user-uploaded videos — either material the users created themselves or digitally captured content from television or elsewhere.
Flash technology has been a key factor in making video popular on the Web.
But making money remains a serious problem.
Meanwhile, advertising may not be a holy grail. Consumers may revolt when ads start appearing in videos, says Whitehouse. Online video companies will have to weigh the pros and cons of embedding ads within videos versus placing them on the web pages on which the videos appear. “There may be a lot of resistance [from users] to ads embedded in user-uploaded videos,” he says. But YouTube’s popular feature that allows users to place videos on their web pages may not leave the company with many options. After all, video displayed on another site can still use YouTube’s bandwidth without displaying any other YouTube content, such as ads — unless YouTube decides to embed them in the videos. “The same features that have made the site so popular may make it hard to monetize,” says Whitehouse.
I believe these problems will be solved because video is the most powerful medium created by human beings to engage maximum of their senses and subsumes text, audio, and visual information and captures dynamics.  All absent in text and pictures.  



By Ramesh |
    				July 26, 2006 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Raghu Ramakrishnan at Yahoo
Long Tail (is Not So Big) →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


