https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/fun-can-be-stressful








Fun can be stressful – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Fun can be stressful    			


WSJ has a very interesting piece in their todays paper (subscription required) that shows how stressful it has been to Koreans to go to five days a week.  Some interesting points:
Jun In Kyung is one unhappy housewife.
Her husband’s employer just started giving him two Saturdays off a month. The 36-year-old wrestling teacher’s new schedule, though, means Ms. Jun has to spend more of her time cooking and doing extra housework. Plus, she grumbles, after staying out late with his buddies on Friday nights, her husband sleeps a lot on Saturdays — cramping their two children’s indoor playtime.
“Home is supposed to be women’s space and I don’t like it when he spends more time in my space,” says Ms. Jun, also 36. “It’s like an invasion.”
But as you may expect
Not everyone is having trouble adjusting. Mr. Kim’s 39-year-old colleague, Lee Sang Cheon, has embraced the extra days off. Now, Mr. Lee says, he has time to take Japanese lessons, practice golf and go on weekend outings with his wife and two young daughters. “I love this: being with my family and friends near the beach and being able to relax,” he says, laughing while his little daughter crawls over him at a seaside restaurant on a weekend jaunt.



By Ramesh |
    				August 10, 2006 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Tagging videos
EventWeb:  What is an event? →



			One thought on “Fun can be stressful”		




Sunil Shinde September 22, 2006 at 11:32 pm 

Hi Dr.Ramesh,
Earlier also i writen u once. I just  saw your CV. It is just aweful.
So may research papers, books , launching 3 companies……….
WE R PROUD OF U, specially since u r from Nagpur.
I also grown up in Nagpur and  after  completing my MBA
from Nagpur, now working as Programmer in Mumbai.
I tried 2 understand the technologies u r working on, but presently
it is just going above my head.
Also let me tell u,I am writing this mail just 2 express my feeling,
no other intention.
rgd,
Sunil Shinde







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


