https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/from-documents-to-experiences








From Documents to Experiences – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				From Documents to Experiences    			


Mike Elgan interviewed me for their Great Mind series on DevSource.  You can visit this site to see the interview.
Mike is right in expressing my views:
We’re all slaves to the keyword, Jain says. “This is a very primitive and poor mechanism” for finding information, he believes, and our understanding of what people are looking for is still very poor.
And he brings out the role of events:
Today’s Web, says Jain, is a document Web. Everything is presented as a page. Yet, audio and video are becoming easier to store and disseminate, what Jain describes as an “event.” Figuring out how we’ll search through “events” is only one small piece of the problem. For example, as mobile phones become the primary client, people will use the devices to look for information: how do you design search tools for that platform?
Overall, it was a good experience to talk to Mike and I am happy that ideas have come out well.  After many of these, you are worried whether your ideas will be correctly represented.  In this case, I am definitely happy.  Well, that is the difference between documents and experiences or between text and video.  You could be misrepresented more easily in text.  Videos are more realistic representation of the event.



By Ramesh |
    				August 22, 2006 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Media Gap
EventWeb3: Defining ‘event’ →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


