https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/photo-software-revised-reality








Photo Software: Revised Reality – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Photo Software: Revised Reality    			


News.com has two articles related to photos today.
First one talks about the enhanced photo sharing software from HP.  
For example, Group Rooms, a new photo-sharing tool, allows users to create their own Web page, with a unique URL, to which the page creator, and invited friends and family, can add and view photos. Group members receive e-mail updates when the “room” has been updated.
The second article talks about ‘Revised Reality’:

Today’s cameras will let you do more than adjust the flash; they’ll let you adjust reality. Photo-adjusting features that once required a PC and special know-how are now allowing consumers to alter a photo as soon as it’s snapped.
Using my Casio EXILIM S-500, I have been taking pictures for some time that allow different picture taking modes.  And based on personal experience I can see the point:
With new tools, average people can create their own “pictures that lie” at the moment of capture, without any trace of the real image that was seen with the naked eye.
“People in the legal world are now concerned about whether photos can be accepted as evidence anymore, especially when you can alter the scene as you click the shutter,” said Peter Southwick, associate professor and director of the photojournalism program at Boston University. “And in the old days, there was an original, now there is no original. Photography as a tool for providing evidence, or as proof, may not exist anymore.” 
Now you can poder about the validity of photographs or of what really is reality.



By Ramesh |
    				August 29, 2006 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← EventWeb5: Creating a Web
Events: Flickr and Upcoming →



			2 thoughts on “Photo Software: Revised Reality”		




Erica Johnson September 15, 2006 at 3:43 am 

I have searched several other sites looking for information on digital cameras and revised reality and all seem to say the exact same facts, there is no new information. If you can’t give me new resources  can youdirect me to a site that can?
Thank you,
Erica Johnson








futbol January 31, 2008 at 3:28 am 

thank you







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


