https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/google-and-images








Google and Images – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Google and Images    			


A game developed at CMU by researchers to tag images has become popular in image search community.  This game was presented at CHI conference by Ahn and Dabbish.
First Yahoo started using this philosophy and now Google has licensed this game (see here).  After one of our discussions on image search, Michael Parekh sent this to me along with a link to an experience (report) on this.
Intriguing idea here.  Yahoo used tags for a different environment — in Flickr search is useful but the emphasis is more on social networking.  Using tags for primarily for searching a large collection is definitely intriguing.  How will tags be combined with other information sources?  Or will it be the tags only?  How reliable will the tags generated from such games will be — more reliable than the current text oriented techniques used?
I am definitely eager to see how this experiment will affect image search by Google.  Of particular interest is the fact that Google recently bought Neven Vision and now this.  Does this mean that Google is serious about images?  Are they thinking of combining human assistance (thru the ESP game) and computer algorithms?



By Ramesh |
    				September 2, 2006 |
    				             		Prospecting Information, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← EventWeb6: Explicit Referential Links
On Tags →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


