https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/entrepreneurism-class








Entrepreneurism Class – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Entrepreneurism Class    			


Today I start conducting Entrepreneurism class in our school.Â  This will be my second year to conduct this class.Â  First year turned out to be an interesting experiment.Â  Based on comments from students, they enjoyed it and so did I.
This is a different class from normal computer science classes.Â  I have been wondering how to make it a more exciting and really entrepreneurial environment.Â  One thing that I’d like to do in this class is to interact more closely with students and make sure that they start thinking boldly.Â  And this is not easy in our current ‘broadcast’ oriented lectures.Â  So one important thing could be to make it such that there are more discussions in class than lectures.
Let me try that.Â  Maybe you have some ideas on how to do that!Â  If you do, please do suggest.
Â 



By Ramesh |
    				September 26, 2006 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		4 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Pattern Recognition
Progress in digital cameras →



			4 thoughts on “Entrepreneurism Class”		




Adam September 26, 2006 at 10:34 am 

I took an entrepreneurism class in college, and I loved it. It sounds like your class is larger than mine was (I had only 20 or so), but our assignment at the end of the semester was to present a business plan and product (even a fake product) to a small panel of venture capitalists and then field their questions.
It was great experience to write up our own business plans and think through market size, potential, strategy and the like. Most of our products were imaginary, but we all learned alot by writing up our plans and presenting. I’d highly recommend it if the class is small enough.








mark September 27, 2006 at 5:14 am 

Can i have more details about the enterpreneurism class… Is is helpful for non-IT related jobs?








Chad September 28, 2006 at 4:27 am 

I would agree that discussions would be better suited than lectures, also something like Adam suggested would be a great way to get the students thinking.








Ramesh  Post authorSeptember 28, 2006 at 6:12 pm 

Students in this class will work on projects leading to a business plan.
To expose them to some entrepreneurs, I will have some guests who will share their experience and will help students.
This calss is not big — about 20 students.  I think that is the right size for such a class.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


