https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/more-is-not-better








More is not (necessarily) better – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				More is not (necessarily) better    			


Common belief is that more money is better.Â  Most people are always trying to have more money because it can never hurt you — in fact common wisdom is that it always helps.
In Jainism, the religion I was born in but not practice its rituals and common practices, the belief is really opposite.Â  To get satisfaction and nirvana, you must give away everything.Â  One must give away all ‘parigraha’ (possessions) — including your clothes.Â  Jain monks live naked.Â  I do see the ‘truth’ behind this idea.Â  But that is the extreme.Â 
There is an interesting story published in several places — for a version see News.com article.Â  In an interview when asked, after MySpace was valued at $ 15B, about Craiglist, the founder Craig Newmark said:

“Who needs the money? We don’t really care,” Craig Newmark said in an interview at the Picnic ’06 Cross Media Week conference in Amsterdam.
“If you’re living comfortably, what’s the point of having more?” Newmark said.
He further added that

Newmark said raising the money to subsequently give it away to good causes also did not interest him.
“Finding a good cause is incredibly hard and time-consuming,” he said, adding that he and Chief Executive Jim Buckmaster agree on not cashing in.
“We both know some people who own more than a billion (dollars) and they’re not any the happier. They also need bodyguards,” he said.
I like the thinking.Â  And can say that, though I never had the problem mentioned here, I see the ‘truth’ based on many people I know.



By Ramesh |
    				September 29, 2006 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism, General Updates |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Towards Immersive Telepresence
Worst Service Experience →



			2 thoughts on “More is not (necessarily) better”		




Andy October 1, 2006 at 6:16 pm 

This forms an interest contrast with the entry about entrepreneurism…








Ramesh  Post authorOctober 3, 2006 at 5:44 am 

Really depends on the definition of entrepreneurism.
But, in general you are right.  And such contradictions are what make life intriguing and interesting.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


