https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/ten-myths-for-entrepreneurs








Ten Myths for Entrepreneurs – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Ten Myths for Entrepreneurs    			


I was pointed to this blog on myths by a student — Thera Barnett — in my class.Â  Really nice myths by Ron Garrett.
The first two are my favorites:
Myth #1: A brilliant idea will make you rich.
Reality: A brilliant idea is neither necessary nor sufficient for a successful business, although all else being equal it can’t hurt. Microsoft is probably the canonical example of a successful business, and it has never had a single brilliant idea in its entire history. (To the contrary, Microsoft has achieved success largely by seeking out and destroying other people’s brilliant ideas.) Google was based on a couple of brilliant ideas (Page rank, text-only ads, massive parallel implementation on cheap hardware) but none of those ideas were original with Larry or Sergey. This is not to say that Larry, Sergey and Bill are not bright guys — all three of them are sharper than I can ever hope to be. But the idea that any of them woke up one day with an inspiration and coasted the rest of the way to riches is a myth.
Myth #2: If you build it they will come.
There is a grain of truth to this myth. There have been examples of businesses that just built a product, cast it upon the ether(net), and achieved success. (Google is the canonical example.) But for every Google there are ten examples of companies that had killer products that didn’t sell for one reason or another. My favorite example of this is the first company I tried to start back in 1993. It was called FlowNet, and it was a new design for a high speed local area network. It ran at 500Mb/s in a time when 10 Mb/s ethernet was the norm. For more than five years, FlowNet had the best price/performance ratio of any available network. On top of that, FlowNet had built-in quality-of-service guarantees for streaming video. If FlowNet had taken over the world your streaming video would be working a lot better today than it does.
But despite the fact that on a technical level FlowNet blew everything else out of the water it was an abysmal failure as a business. We never sold a single unit. The full story of why FlowNet failed would take me far afield, but if I had to sum it up in a nutshell the reason it didn’t sell was very simple: it wasn’t Ethernet. And if we’d done our homework and market research we could have known that this would be, if not a show-stopper at least a significant obstacle. And we would have known it before we spent tens of thousands of dollars of our own money on patent attorneys and prototypes.



By Ramesh |
    				October 8, 2006 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Using youself in emoticons
Winners and Losers in Hindi Movies →



			One thought on “Ten Myths for Entrepreneurs”		




Warren April 3, 2010 at 3:47 pm 

Mr Ramesh,
yes I agree that a brilliant idea is not a guarantee of success.  It is usually the simple ideas that work best.  For example who would have thought that something as simple as a company selling domain names would be so successful.  I am thinking of Go daddy.  Not only does it sell domain names now but it has also branched out into hosting and well as site builder services.  Going forward do you recommend that those looking for success stick to the simple ideas or that we continue to develop ideas like FlowNet, but researching more diligently. Warren
http://www.you-make-a-website.com







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


