https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/china-trip-nov-2006-2








China Trip Nov. 2006: 2 – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				China Trip Nov. 2006: 2    			


Now I have attended a very well – almost perfectly — organized conference, spent some time as a tourist, and been to a University.
China is definitely very clean and well organized.Â  It does compare well to most countries that I have been to.Â  Traffic is disciplined, trash is taken care of, even in very crowded places peole are well behaved.Â  Tourist attractions are extremely well managed.Â  Hangzhou is a city for tourists and most of them are Chinese tourists in this season.Â  So I saw that Chinese people are very well behaved in these places.
The restaurants that I visited were also very impressive.Â  Of course these were one of the better ones and were carefully selected to impress — and that worked.
The most impressive visit for me was to the University.Â  Zhejiang is considered in the top 10 universities in the country.Â  I went to their West Lake campus.Â  The university is physically very impressive — nice very well maintained buildings.Â  But the more impressive part was the departments.Â  The computer science department is extremely well equipped.Â  Modern facilities.Â  Some labs are sponsored by companies like Microsoft.Â  Demos that I was shown compare to those that I will be shown in any advanced country.Â  That is not surprising considering the research output in International places that one sees from China.
A big surprise to me was the number of doctoral students.Â  Prof. Yueting Zhuang has more than 20 in his group more than any in US I know.Â  And I was told that it is not very uncommon.Â  Discussions with some of them showed that they are doing high quality work.Â 
So far it has been an amazing experience.Â  I will be remiss if I did not mention that people are really good host.Â  They are making me feel very important — I just hope that it does get out of my head before I board plane to get back home.



By Ramesh |
    				November 3, 2006 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Pacific Rim Multimedia COnference: Day 2
China Trip Nov 2006:3 →



			2 thoughts on “China Trip Nov. 2006: 2”		




xiady November 4, 2006 at 10:30 am 

Welcome to china
Welcome to Zhejiang University
Welcome to our lab (Digital media Computing & Design Lab)
btw:  a little issue, “Zhejiang University” but not “Zhejian”.
Thanks.








Ramesh  Post authorNovember 4, 2006 at 5:28 pm 

Thanks for pointing out the typo.
Zhejiang university is definitely very impressive.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


