https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/long-tail-always-deams-of-becoming-the-head








Long Tail always deams of becoming the Head – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Long Tail always deams of becoming the Head    			


One of the key buzz word emerging in 2006 was ‘Long Tail’.Â  This makes people think that Long Tail is important.Â  No doubt that in many applications, less popular content may add up to become significant.Â  ANd for many businesses this is important to keep in mind.Â  But this is also misleading to many young entrepreneurs.
It is important to realize that most content that is part of the long tail is created by people who really would rather be labelled as Head rather than the long tail.Â  People creating long tail content — or being part of the long tail — are really working thier way to become the head.Â  This is important to keep in mind for two reasons.Â  Simply, once a long tailed person is clloser to the head, their a major change in behavior.Â  Also, in many cases people visiting sites with long tail contet are really there in search of content in the head or that is close to head.Â  ANd because they are already there, they would not mind looking around for the tail.



By Ramesh |
    				December 18, 2006 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Person of the Year:  You
Seraja update 061220 →



			3 thoughts on “Long Tail always deams of becoming the Head”		




Luke December 19, 2006 at 8:52 am 

I don’t agree with your assessment. You cannot say that people creating long tail content mostly want to move up into the head.
I have an open-source project on SourceForge which is out in the Long Tail in terms of users and downloads. But I haven’t modified it in months, because I don’t really care if it ever becomes a “head” project. I would be thrilled if it did become extremely popular, but it’s not something I’m actively working towards. There are 59k+ such project on SourceForge, (see my Long Tail blog posting for details) so I don’t think I’m a minority in this regard.
Do you think most of the videos on YouTube, or most of the photos on Flickr are created and posted by people who want to “make it big” in video or photo production?
Sometimes (most of the time, in some industries?) people are happy to create content and micro-content for fun or hobby rather than out of a desire to become fabulously popular. 
If you’re pitching entrepreneurial advice to the younger generation (me), I’d suggest a post with a little more content, and a little less creaky rocking-chair murmuring.








Ramesh  Post authorDecember 20, 2006 at 9:56 am 

There are definitely some people who don’t want to be in the ‘head’.
But most people will welcome any opportunity that will place them in the head.  This is what I have observed.  You may have different opinion and I definitely respect that.
Just notice how people talk that this person who was ‘nobody’ became famous by posting his/her work on YouTube or how a similar sit help discove hidden talents.   
ALso, as an entrepreneur it helps to develop sites that will be attractive to people and you always want to put content that will be in demand and that means that even in niche area, you are looking for ‘head’ — of if I may say you are always looking for ‘head’ in a long tail.








Becca @Childrens Rocking Chairs March 19, 2010 at 10:17 am 

Long tail is still popular today atleast in internet marketing.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


