https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/iphone-is-a-step-towards-folk-computing








IPhone is a step towards Folk Computing – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				IPhone is a step towards Folk Computing    			


Apple’s iPhone is a solid step towards Folk Computing.Â  It is getting rid off the most difficult component of advanced phones and computers — the key board.Â  A bold approach towards making phones and computers usable device independent of a language by billions of people.
This is beginning of something real good.



By Ramesh |
    				January 11, 2007 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		4 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Events in Singapore
AnyTown Online →



			4 thoughts on “IPhone is a step towards Folk Computing”		


Pingback: LULOP.org [opensource] » Naturally interacting with Apple 




domain name freek January 11, 2007 at 6:58 pm 

I glade to hear I not the only one out their that has the point of view on the matter. I think this is going to be a wonderful thing. I think this will bring the world closer.








Chip Martins January 13, 2007 at 2:14 pm 

What is Folk Computing?








Ramesh  Post authorJanuary 14, 2007 at 9:09 am 

Folk computing is developing computing environments, not just user interfaces, that will bring computing to the rest 5 Billion people.  This could not be done by just reducing the cost or developing ‘natural interfaces, but also providing environment in which content could be created and accessed by anybody independent of languages and educational background.  Please see the article cited in the post.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


