https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/changing-marriages-bedrooms








Changing marriages — bedrooms – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Changing marriages — bedrooms    			


Social patterns emerge as socio-economic status of a society changes.Â  With increasing financial independence of women came higher divorce rate almost in all societies.Â  Yes, we Indians think that marriages are stable because they are arranged and we are somehow good in maintaining marital relations.Â  But the real reason is the social stigma and socio-economic situation.Â  With changes coming in society, the trend is obvious –Â the stability had more to do with women’s financial independence than being Indian.Â 
NYT has a very interesting story today.
Â Not since the Victorian age of starched sheets and starchy manners, builders and architects say, have there been so many orders for separate bedrooms. Or separate sleeping nooks. Or his-and-her wings.
In interviews, couples and sociologists say that often it has nothing to do with sex. More likely, it has to do with snoring. Or with children crying. Or with getting up and heading for the gym at 5:30 in the morning. Or with sending e-mail messages until well after midnight.
…
The move to separate sleeping spaces is yet another manifestation of changing marital patterns.
Not too surprising that this ‘home-sleeping-alone’ syndrome is starting in the well-to-do couples and is then moving to others.Â  This is more important than appears — it is a step in the direction of redfining marriages as we have known them.



By Ramesh |
    				March 11, 2007 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Wikia
History preservation in digital age →



			One thought on “Changing marriages — bedrooms”		




ramya March 23, 2007 at 7:38 am 

Hi All,
This is ramya.
This site gives us information about the Social patterns emerge as socio-economic status of a society changes.  With increasing financial independence of women came higher divorce rate almost in all societies.
divorce society







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


