https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/vidhu-vinod-chopra-and-bollywood








Vidhu Vinod Chopra and Bollywood – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Vidhu Vinod Chopra and Bollywood    			


Yesterday I had a chance to attend screening ofÂ  VV Chopra’s movie Eklavya and hear his interview and question-answers with him on UCLA campus.Â  This was a great experience.
Mr Chopra is definitely a very different director than others.Â  This movie is produced and directed so well that while watching the movie, I never thought that it was a Bollywood production — even though I new it is.Â  Movie is directed, filmed, and produced very professionally.Â  It does not devite from the theme and carefully presents the new message about ‘dharma’.
One of the most interesting thing that Vidhu Vinod Chopra said during interview that he makes movies to satisfy himself.Â  He wants to be happy that he made the best that he could.Â  Another interesting message that I got wa that he uses the basic model of entrepreneurship in his movies.Â  He rewards people based on the success of the movie, rather than contracting them.Â  He claimed that this results in allowing him to make movies at reasonable cost.Â  And there are good actors who are willing to work under that model.
I hope that other movie makers in India learn somethings from him and make moview that are in that class.Â  He is well aware of the problem.Â  He mentioned that Indian audience has not appreciated that movie.Â  In fact I was told that many Indians in USA also have made statements like who wants to see a movie in which Amitabh Bachchan plays the role of a security man.Â  Maybe the taste of Bollywood people has become so bad that it will take long time for them to get out of total melodrama and overacting in a very poorly produced environment.Â  But then everybody has right to enjoy what art they like.
For me, yesterday evening was one of the best evening that had a Bollywood movie a part of it.Â  And I do hope that I see more such movies.



By Ramesh |
    				March 25, 2007 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		4 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← India in Cricket World Cup
Long Tail using Recognition by Crowds →



			4 thoughts on “Vidhu Vinod Chopra and Bollywood”		


Pingback: Desi Galaxy » News and Links Round up 




Ashish Gupta March 26, 2007 at 9:51 am 

Vidhu is technically a very accompished diretcor. But he and his movies lack ability to connect to people. Connecting to people  is what differentiate a great director (or story teller) from a good one like Vidhu.








Ramesh  Post authorMarch 27, 2007 at 10:56 am 

Maybe Vidhu is not able to connect with Bollywood audience because he is ‘too technical’ or ‘too sophisticated’ for Bollywood audience of today.  Looking at the stories, direction, acting, and special effects in common Bollywood movies and other programs on ZeeTV, it is clear that there is no other direction but to improve.  Hopefully Bollywood is going to grow rapidly and people like Vidhu V Chopra will be the leaders in this process.
In my humble opinion, the problem maybe the place where he is rather than the quality of his work.








Nisha Acharya July 21, 2011 at 3:49 pm 

Saw eklavya and 3 idiots today back to back, and I must say Vidhu excel in both the roles, be it of producer or director. Even when I see interviews conducted by his wife Anupama I experience sincere and cinema literate journalism.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


