https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/towards-natural-interfaces








Towards natural interfaces – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Towards natural interfaces    			


Computing indusrry is definitely due for a new interface technology that willÂ make use of computers more natural.Â  Mouse and Keyboards have been with us for quite some time.Â  The attached video (thanks, Arjun Satish for sending me the link) from TED conference does look very promising.Â  If you like to see exciting interface technology then see this:
Â 
http://www.ted.com/tedtalks/tedtalksplayer.cfm?key=j_han



By Ramesh |
    				March 28, 2007 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		4 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Long Tail using Recognition by Crowds
Phone as modern Swiss Army Knife →



			4 thoughts on “Towards natural interfaces”		




Bageshree Shevade April 2, 2007 at 10:12 am 

This is really cool!! :).. I am also impressed by how real-time it is!








Reishi September 23, 2007 at 4:21 am 

That is so cool, I hope a company with an ounce of design takes it on (I don’t think Microsoft would do it justice)








Hari Haran January 14, 2008 at 3:57 am 

Hi Ramesh,
I own the domain name http://www.naturalinterfaces.com. Is it worth having it ?
Thanks ,
Hari








Associates - Business June 3, 2008 at 9:13 pm 

Quite interesting post..!! Well, the potential for the proposed natural interfaces could be seen in various fields, one such is online learning. Computer technology has provided the opportunity to create tools that enable literacy and learning in ways accessible to every possible user.  However these tools need to support sign language interfaces, i.e., ways of input, recognition, and display of signing gestures etc, in order to be fully effective.
Continuous research work is going on Sign language input and recognition systems for the pat decade or so. Vision based approaches are also under scanner having advantage of allowing the users to remain unencumbered. Recently, researchers have stepped up the process to develop gesture input systems that combine image and device based techniques in order to gather more information about gestures, and thereby achieving more accurate results.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


