https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/where-to-store-your-photos








Where to store your photos? – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Where to store your photos?    			


There are many photo sites on Internet where you could store photos.Â  And if you are one of those who stored your photos at Yahoo Photos, then you are facing a real question:Â  What do I do with my photos?Â  News.com story has the details:
Even though the Internet company just refurbished Yahoo Photos with a glitzy new interface, it’s shutting down the site beginning September 20.
So you must now decide where to transfer your photos to.Â  Yahoo will help you transfer them by providing right software.Â  But this does raise an important question:Â  Where should you store your important memories?Â  Should it be on your computer at home, on a reliable location on the Internet, or at any other place where you feel that they are safe and you have easy access to them?Â  Good question.Â  I really don’t know the answer — personally I have them on my home computers and some — really a very small fraction of them — on Internet.



By Ramesh |
    				June 15, 2007 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Multimedia Evidences for Events
Digital Camera Sensitivity →



			2 thoughts on “Where to store your photos?”		




Search engine optimization expert October 3, 2007 at 11:25 pm 

Well, storing photos on internet has always seen as a security threat to human privacy, although it might or might not be the case of security procedure violations, but a light dim afraid is always there. As the social communities have come up in good numbers, so people are making use of these for storing photos but the privacy question remains the same.
So i would rather prefer to have my personal photos on my home PC and some un-important (Non-personal ) photos on somewhere on internet. I think till the time privacy procedures on internet are justified, one will always think of storing their personal stuff on their home PC’s.








fracesca frigo October 24, 2007 at 8:48 am 

I don’t have secret image i share my image in flicker.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


