https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/iphone-a-good-step-towards-folk-computing








iPhone — a good step towards Folk Computing – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				iPhone — a good step towards Folk Computing    			


The talk of iPhone has dominated (technical) news media for some time.  I was always fascinated by it because of my interest in folk computing (this is what I wrote more than 4 years ago)  and my belief that folk computing will be brought to life by experiential interfaces on phones.
Finally, thanks to Michael Parelh, I got a chance to play with his iPhone.  I was so excited by it that I went to the Apple store in Fashion Island and played with it more in the evening.  Amazing what they have designed.  Impressive and fascinating.  For the first time I, who have been thinking and writing about experiential computing, saw how effective experiential computing really could be.
Of course to realize folk computing, this is one solid step in the direction of climbing a mountain.  But it really is a solid step that gives me confidence that computing that could be used by Billions of people is going be here in a few years.  And it will not happen by the talk of bringing sub $100 computer to children of developing world, but it will happen due to innovative ideas like iPhone.

PS: Suzi (my daughter) and Adolfo (my son-in-law) wanted to buy me iPhone on the first day it came out but I decided to get it closer to Xmas after the bugs are all taken care of.  Now I am wondering whether that was a right decision.  I guess it was.



By Ramesh |
    				July 7, 2007 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		8 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Brave New World at so called High Quality Conferences
Large Scale cut-and-paste to enhance photos →



			8 thoughts on “iPhone — a good step towards Folk Computing”		




Matt July 15, 2007 at 7:07 pm 

The iPhone is a unique, well-designed piece of technology. Like many of Apple’s products, it has the potential to reshape an industry.  Like you said, hopefully it will help build this folk computing. Providing computers and especially internet access to developing countries would provide a huge economic benefit. Also, can you adopt me, so I can get an IPhone at Xmas:).








paul July 21, 2007 at 7:54 pm 

Regardless of what naysayers have to say about the iPhone, I think it is brilliant.  Apple has brought a “folk computing device,” as you say, in its first iteration.  Sure, they will have some great advances on the new technology.  But, my word, how this will change the landscape of these devices.  A little while ago, I posted about the FIC Neo 1973, which is an open source version of the iPhone.  It is network independent in the sense of phone service.  Now, I think that is taking this idea a step further.  If that catches on, it could really change the face of communications.  good post.  btw, i think you made a good decision to wait on buying.








Edmund July 22, 2007 at 8:21 am 

I like iPhone on the whole. However, the package prcing with AT&T is not very fantastic especially with AT&T’s unreliable service. Already I’ve been  receiving complaints.
We’re kind of lucky as my friends in Asia have to wait till 1st Quarter of 2008 in order to get their phones on iPhone. 😉








Web Design Ireland August 2, 2007 at 2:03 am 

I know I read somewhere that I phone has few security flows and hackers can take control over the device. I’ll wait till all the rumors are gone and then I might use one, I heard it’s cool. Thanks








BiaWebDesign September 18, 2007 at 2:20 pm 

Yes it’s true they had some flows, but as I know they fixed all software bugs and it’s secured now. Anyway as I know no thechi device that can go to internet is 100% secured








Bia Web Design October 12, 2007 at 11:33 am 

I just noticed that it’s very expensive … like a good new laptop. not worthed…what you think?








Tim Baker October 26, 2007 at 12:31 pm 

VOIP is  a growing market and therefore will decrease in cost.
Quality is still an issue, but already for the most part it reduces costs of long distant calls to almost zero.
Designer hosting








Mark November 20, 2007 at 1:06 pm 

For me, it deserves every buck  it costs. It’s a great piece  of hardware. The multi-touch screen is just unbelievable.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


