https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/large-scale-cut-and-paste-to-enhance-photos








Large Scale cut-and-paste to enhance photos – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Large Scale cut-and-paste to enhance photos    			


It had to happen — so I am happy to read about it.  To enhance an image or prepae an image one can use the large volume of photos on the web and cut correct part from those to paste appropriately to get a new photo.  Of course this problem is a lot more complex than it appears, particularly because the problem of cut-and-paste is so easy in text.  Researchers at CMU have two approaches towards different aspects of this problem.
Whether adding people or objects to a photo, or filling holes in an edited photo, the systems automatically find images that match the context of the original photo so they blend realistically. Unlike traditional photo editing, these results can be achieved rapidly by users with minimal skills.
This is a very interesting research direction with good challenges.



By Ramesh |
    				July 11, 2007 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← iPhone — a good step towards Folk Computing
From Killer Apps to Platform →



			One thought on “Large Scale cut-and-paste to enhance photos”		




Edmund July 22, 2007 at 8:23 am 

I think watermark technologies should have a bigger market soon. Only if they make their services really affordable. That way, you can easily tell if a photo has copyright. 
So why is nobody opening up this market?







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


