https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/fast-image-similarity-search








Fast Image Similarity Search – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Fast Image Similarity Search    			


Hitachi announced a fast image similarity search — a million images can be searched in 1 second.Â Â 
Hitachi Ltd. has developed a search technology that can find images similar to a specified image from millions of images and video data in one second.
The technology assesses the similarity of images based on image characteristics presented as high-dimensional numeric information. The information is acquired by automatically detecting information regarding the images, such as color distribution and shapes. The technology can be applied to video search as well.
The new technology features (1) high-speed visual similarity search using two-step search clustering technology and (2) faster reading through optimized data allocation on an HDD.
I would love to play with this system and see its effectiveness.



By Ramesh |
    				July 31, 2007 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Interest in Nagpur
A picture is worth a thousand lies →



			One thought on “Fast Image Similarity Search”		




Zivi August 10, 2007 at 1:32 am 

amazing how quick new algorithms for search techniques are developed.  that the technology is able to be applied on video search sounds good to me, too. im looking forward to the techniques that are developed in the next 10 years. I’m so excited about the research in this.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


