https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/hiperwall-at-uc-irvine-calit2








Hiperwall at UC Irvine CalIT2 – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Hiperwall at UC Irvine CalIT2    			


The Hiperwall project has been in news (see CNN video here) recently.
Visualization is a powerful tool and it does matter whether you see it on a phone screen or on a hiperwall.Â  If you can see details at the same resolution while also maintaining the context, it does help you in gaining insights.Â  Most times we forget that the major difference in a picture and simple numbers representing the same picture is that picture provides you context in spatial and visual (and in video in temporal also) forms also while numbers only provide details.
The hiperwall is remarkable in this respect.Â  It is something to be experienced.Â  If you can not get to UC Irvine to see that, you can at least see the video to experience this visualization tool.



By Ramesh |
    				August 23, 2007 |
    				             		Experiential Computing, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		6 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← History and events
Busy working on EventWeb Project →



			6 thoughts on “Hiperwall at UC Irvine CalIT2”		




sachin jain August 27, 2007 at 9:55 pm 

and a picture made a more lasting impression in mind compared to numbers








asli September 2, 2007 at 2:08 pm 

and a picture made a more lasting impression in mind compared to numbers








Hosting on Windows September 26, 2007 at 7:25 am 

I do agree to the fact that visualisation is indeed a powerful tool anf 80 % of the business is generated through the visualization itself. Whether its an add on Tv, internet, newspaper, magzines etc.








Emule December 27, 2007 at 6:31 am 

This not is aplicable in my country! :0(








Free SMS April 16, 2008 at 7:52 pm 

Visualization plays  a vital factor in teaching and learning either it be offline or online teaching and learning. Human memory recognizes a pattern easily and those patters are lasted in the memory which are serves as a reference to provide answer to the queries.
For instance:
If you see a falling apple you will remember Newton and law of gravitation.








Phuket Villas May 20, 2008 at 9:16 pm 

Indeed, it is our human brain which helps us in the recognizability of certain patterns. Visual concept puts a long term effect in analyzing and recalling things stored in our brains. It does helps us to associates things with a diagram and provides us guidelines on what exactly the topic is all about.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


