https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/semantics-in-multimedia








Semantics in Multimedia – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Semantics in Multimedia    			


The first IEEE International Conference on Semantic Computing was help earlier this week in Irvine.Â  I attended part of it and participated in it.Â  As computing is evolving, semantics is playing increasing tole.Â  In the emerging computing systems ordinary humans are becoming an important component not only as mass users but also as content creators and participants in social activities on computers.Â  And this requires semantics to take increasingly important role.Â  My keynote talk at this conference was on this theme.Â  The presentation that IÂ used is available here.



By Ramesh |
    				September 21, 2007 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		4 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Computer vision applications in cameras
Losing friends →



			4 thoughts on “Semantics in Multimedia”		




Windows web server Hosting September 26, 2007 at 7:43 am 

Wow!
The presentation was excellent. Youhave covered all the current topics like blogs forums, social networking etc and also gave a detail view on the future trends as well with an indication to google.








Ramesh  Post authorSeptember 27, 2007 at 12:55 am 

Thanks a lot for your comment.








cell phone services reviews September 28, 2007 at 12:48 am 

Nice Post..!! To be very frank these type of discussions should be made public more often because these tends to present better view of latest things happening around us.








web designer September 28, 2007 at 11:28 pm 

Thank you Mr.Jain for enlightening me on the semantics. I wasn’t aware of many of the things you have covered in the presentation. I learned a lot and there is lot to digest. Thanks.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


