https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/smile-you-are-on-camera








Smile — you are on camera! – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Smile — you are on camera!    			


Companies are developing technology to detect smile on faces and are finding different applications of this.Â  See an article on this here.Â Â  Smile detection can infact be very useful in many applications — in addition to the customer satisfaction and photo capture mentioned in the article.Â  What is more — some more important emotion detection could also be developed and used in applications.Â  It is refreshing to see these things coming in consumer products.



By Ramesh |
    				October 4, 2007 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Can Entrepreneurship be taught?
Computer Vision for Developing Countries →



			3 thoughts on “Smile — you are on camera!”		




deepanjali October 8, 2007 at 5:54 am 

I really liked ur post, thanx for sharing. Keep writing. I discovered a good site for bloggers check out this http://www.blogadda.com, you can submit your blog there, you can get more auidence.
Keep smiling always








Suryandaru Triandana October 8, 2007 at 6:48 pm 

That’s really a innovative technology, this Smile detection may is very useful for deliver fast analyzing the consumer satisfaction and happiness in the some place.








Windows Web Hosting October 10, 2007 at 5:21 am 

I’m not sure how good this will be for conversion of online targeed traffic.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


