https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/seraja-towards-a-new-incarnation








Seraja — towards a new incarnation – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Seraja — towards a new incarnation    			


Good technology does not necessarily mean a successful company.  I was trying to build the first generation of EventWeb through Seraja.com.  It appears that Seraja did not grow as we wanted it to and hence we are facing a touch decision — what to do?
Based on feedback from many different sources, it is clear that the technology has potential and its time has come.  So we are thinking how to make sure that the technology developed can continue to grow.  One possibility is to make it available to interested people in some kind of ‘open platform’ — but without much support.
On the other hand, we are also exploring how to bring the technology to UC Irvine and maybe build a site
seraja.uci.edu
   or
seraja.org
with the current technoogy and make sure that we keep it growing.
We will make some of these decisions soon.  In the mean time, I am very pleased with the seraja team and thankful to them first in joining me in this journey and then being so patient and understanding during tough time. In particular Rajesh Jain demonstrated what a true entrepreneur does — he was always very supportive and was generous in his investment and moral support.  And he is the one who suggested that we should try to find a way to keep seraja technology not only alive but if possibly put it in an environment where it could grow — without worrying about his investment.  When Seraja technology is successful in bringing eventweb to life, he will see that his encouragement, support, and investment did what he wanted to do — bring something exciting to society.



By Ramesh |
    				October 30, 2007 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Back after fires
Another inexpensive PC for developing countries →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


