https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/you-know-it-but-it-still-hurts








You know it — but it still hurts – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				You know it — but it still hurts    			


In our life a time comes that you know that you are going to lose some of your family members or dear ones.  You know it well and intellectually accept that also, but when you come close to that happening it still hurts.  I guess intellectual aspects and emotions are somewhat orthogonal in our life.  
Sudha’s mother is now about 80 year old and has not been keeping good health.  Last week she fell down and broke multiple bones.  If you don’t do surgery to replace her hip, she will be in pain and will be miserable — will not be able to get off her bed.  And if you do sergery, considering her health and age, she may not survive it.  A common dilemma that many of us have face some time or other.  Well, family decided for the second option and now she is in emergency.  We don;t know whether she will survive or not.  Even before the decision was made for surgery, this possibility was well known — but it hurts.
She is a great lady.  One of those people who did a lot for others and adopted different people as their own.  No wonder tht she is loved so much.  Sudha is in India with her.



By Ramesh |
    				November 4, 2007 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← If I.T. merged with E. T.
Bai is no more with us →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


