https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/google-phone-a-step-towards-folk-computing








Google Phone: a step towards folk computing? – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Google Phone: a step towards folk computing?    			


All this talk about Google Phone is starting to become a bit more clear now.  There is a picture emerging — though it is still very unclear.  It does appear that this will provide an environment —  if you like, call it operating system — for developing applications.  It appears to be an open platform.  More details will emerge soon and picture will become clearer soon.
What I like about it is that this may in fact open doors for lots of new applications that people in different parts of world could launch using phones.  It has become increasingly clear that the next revolution in computing is coming through phones and this strategy adopted by Google will help phones become what PCs became much faster and will result in lot more creating applications.
This area is really becoming very exciting both for reseaerchers as well as for social entrepreneurs and for regular entrepreneurs.



By Ramesh |
    				November 6, 2007 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Bai is no more with us
Named Event Extraction →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


