https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/medical-tourism-and-medical-care-in-india








Medical Tourism and Medical Care in India – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Medical Tourism and Medical Care in India    			


I heard a program on Medical Tourism on NPR that described how one can travel to India, Thailand , and some other countries and get medical treatment for a small fraction of the cost that you have to pay in USA and can get wonderful treatment.  And there is increasing trend towards this.  This may be true and that is something that is a bit disturbing and annoying.  I hear many stories from friends and relatives when I go back there.  Unfortunately all these stories are exactly opposite of what you normally read in media about medical treatment in India.
Medical care even in reasonably big cities is beyond the reach of an average person for most serious problems.  And even expensive places lack basic care.  Surgery is particularly a situation that becomes complex due to inadequate post-care not only due to facilities but also human ‘chalega’ attitude.  I myself saw some of it when trying to take care of my father but that was more than 15 year ago.  I thought that things may have improved and I also started believing to some extent the stories in media about improving health care.  Based on what I hear when I visit there, and what I heard in details very recently, it appears that we have a long way to go to provide adequate health care to common Indians.
Health is a sensitive matter and most people are not satisfied with the care they and their family members receive.  But what you hear and see in India, is still very serious.  We do have places that may be of top standards (and beyond the reach of almost all but a few Indians) that cater to foreigners to make money.  And true to India traditions, most other facilities are more towards the other extreme.  Medical tourism is like five star hotels — there are a few and they cater to well-to-do foreigners and really rich in India.  One can not judge Indian living conditions by visiting five star hotels.



By Ramesh |
    				November 15, 2007 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		6 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Cameras will recognize you
E2E: Environemnt to Environment Connection →



			6 thoughts on “Medical Tourism and Medical Care in India”		




Healism June 9, 2008 at 4:41 am 

My views on medical tourism and it’s health risks are rather mixed. I had one friend who received heart surgery in India with no complaints. Another friend had plastic surgery in Thailand and didn’t enjoy it. It’s true Medical Tourism is only for rich – “Medical tourism is like five star hotels”. Nice Article, thanks.








Worldmed Assist August 30, 2008 at 3:17 pm 

I agree with the article that the hospitals used by medical tourists are like 5 star hotels. That is unfortunate for Indian healthcare. On the other hand, the investments that mainly private companies are currently making in Indian healthcare are tremendous. This combined with wages in society increasing dramatically and the rise of health insurance products will hopefully improve the situation of Indian locals.








Patient Health Records October 21, 2008 at 2:12 am 

In India medical care has been tremendously increased and there are many facility that provides online health services. Recently i have visted one site which provides health service which is emedireport.com provides tremendous services like online consultation, online doctors appointment, and many more








Online Doctor Appointment November 16, 2008 at 9:46 pm 

Medical care in India has changes a lot with different utmost technologies which makes us to get good service from all the health care centers








Aalia November 20, 2008 at 11:46 pm 

nice to visit this site
but i have more about medial TOurisim
if u published i is honner or me]
Medical tourism (also called medical travel, health tourism or global healthcare) is a term initially coined by travel agencies and the mass media to describe the rapidly-growing practice of traveling across international borders to obtain health care.
Such services typically include elective procedures as well as complex specialized surgeries such as joint replacement (knee/hip), cardiac surgery, dental surgery, and cosmetic surgeries. However, virtually every type of health care, including psychiatry, alternative treatments, convalescent care and even burial services are available. As a practical matter, providers and customers commonly use informal channels of communication-connection-contract, and in such cases this tends to mean less regulatory or legal oversight to assure quality and less formal recourse to reimbursement or redress, if needed. A specialized subset of medical tourism is reproductive tourism and reproductive outsourcing,[1] which is the practice of traveling abroad to undergo in-vitro fertilization, surrogate pregnancy and other assisted reproductive technology treatments including freezing embryos for retro-production.[2]
Over 50 countries have identified medical tourism as a national industry.[3] However, accreditation and other measures of quality vary widely across the globe, and there are risks and ethical issues that make this method of accessing medical care controversial.








rinky December 15, 2008 at 10:06 pm 

In India medical care has been tremendously increased and there are many facility that provides online health services. Recently i have visted one site which provides health service which is emedireport.com provides tremendous services like online consultation, online doctors appointment, and many more. In India health care produts also has been tremendously increased and there are many facility that provides online health services.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


