https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/now-to-osteoarthritis-of-knees








Now to osteoarthritis of Knees – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Now to osteoarthritis of Knees    			


I started blogging when I was diagnosed with cancer in 2004.  It became obvious to me that the only way to keep up with the phone calls and e-mails was to proactively update my friends and family about me and so i started blogging.  In 2004 it was all about Cancer but slowly started shifting to other things.  
The nature of this blog is really very diverse and will remain so.  This is really about me.  My thinking and my social, academic, professional, and family are part of this.
I decided to talk a bit about my knee — because lots of people suffer from knee problem — osteoarthritis of knee.
Yesterday I went to see doctor about my knee.  It has been again acting up.  I know the problem — I had one total knee replacement due to this problem in 2001.  Since then that knee — left knee — is good except at US airports where it costs me 5-15 minutes extra at all security check points.  I was too afraid to get my both knees fixed at the same time.  And then came the big surgery — the cancer related which kept me in hospital for long time.
Now that my knee is acting up — I need to worry about it.  It does affect quality of life.
Based on my experience there are two approaches you can adopt — a short term one and a real one for long term.  Short term is the pain killers and exercise and the long term is the total knee replacement.  The ones based on Glucosamine did not work for me.  So now I am trying Cortisone injection.  I got one yesterday.  It was not painful at all — no more than blood test.
I will share my experience with this here and so I will about painkillers and anything elsde I try.
Hopefully this will add to the vast literature on this topic — from a patient’s personal point of view.



By Ramesh |
    				December 6, 2007 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Busy time
Deep History →



			2 thoughts on “Now to osteoarthritis of Knees”		




Arjun Ram December 6, 2007 at 1:23 pm 

As a long time reader of your blog, my thoughts and prayers are with you. Hope things workout for the better.. Get well soon and tell us more about your experience with the EventWeb! Take Care!








Knee Replacement December 18, 2007 at 5:59 am 

Post your queries related to Knee Replacement at,
http://www.wockhardthospitals.net/general/give_quote.asp
Toll Free
UK: 0-808-234-6343
US / Canada: 1-800-730-6373







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


