https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/indian-ceos-pride-of-nagpur








Indian CEOs — Pride of Nagpur – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Indian CEOs — Pride of Nagpur    			


An interesting read from Times of India both about Indian CEOs in USA and about foreign CEOs in India.
And the statement about Nagpur is also right there.



By Ramesh |
    				December 12, 2007 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Sad education situation in India
In Singapore →



			3 thoughts on “Indian CEOs — Pride of Nagpur”		




Dinesh Jain December 12, 2007 at 10:14 am 

Ramesh, thanks for sharing this on your Blog. Yes, all of us Nagpurians are so proud of Vikram Pandit, Dinsh Keskar and others. Also like what Keskar has done in bringing Boeing MRO to Nagpur, hope Pandit will also do some thing similar for Nagpur, so that we do not get the last comment of ToI about Nagpur. Our group Nagpur First (www.nagpurfirst.org) is dedicated to contributing towards Nagpur becoming a World class city by 2015. We invite all people who are Nagpurians or otherwise care about Nagpur to join the group. 
Thanks again for publishing about Nagpur in your Blog.








Ramesh  Post authorDecember 14, 2007 at 5:19 pm 

Thanks, Dinesh.  Comments like the one in TOI reflect perceptions and should be taken rightly.  Nagpur has to establish itself correctly.
Do you know the irony — until 6 months ago, there was no branch of Citi Bank in Nagpur — it had about 15  branches in India.  So lets hope that there will be a branch soon — I have an account in Bangoluru branch. 🙂








Pankaj July 28, 2009 at 7:24 am 

Dear Sir,
                 It really makes me PLEASED to read a news in TOI regarding your efforts to bring “OUR NAGPUR” on a global map. I strongly feel that these efforts should go beyond ‘just a news’. My best wishes and active participation is with the people like you, who really think about “My Nagpur”.  We understand that our region is one of the most developed region as per as the real education, intellectuality, thoughts and humanity is concern, but along with these things we do need real industrial, infrastructural and commercial growth so that our next generation will enjoy their academic and professional carrier in OUR HOME AT NAGPUR.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


