https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/cyber-and-real-cybereal








Cyber and Real — Cybereal – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Cyber and Real — Cybereal    			


COmputing created cyberspace and popularized it.  So much so that now there is Second Life — a place for you to live only in cyberspace.  But this cyberspace is trying to imitate the real world.  They are trying to do everything in cyberspace that you want to do in the real world.
On the other hand we need to bring power of computing to many real world applications.  For humans, the senses — our five different types of sensors — are the bridge to our brain and the real world.  The same thing is likely to happen to computing.  By developing technology to bridge cyber and real — lets call it cybereal — we can develop many interesting applications.  But to do this, computing researchers must think in terms of events and objects, rather than objects as we currently do.



By Ramesh |
    				December 15, 2007 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Pandit does bring recognition to Nagpur
CAV indexing →



			2 thoughts on “Cyber and Real — Cybereal”		




Mark January 8, 2008 at 12:52 am 

“Cybereal”. I love it. As a writer for searchenginewatch.com, I have often stated that search engines try to emulate human behavior. I think “cybereal” has a much better ring to it and I may need to borrow this for future columns. Many thanks!








MikeNorton March 4, 2008 at 1:52 am 

Cybereal – you should register this word :).
Yeah wonder where we will be in 100 years, so much happened in last 100years… 
enhance.ie
enhancing your business online







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


