https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/nagpur-trip-2007








Nagpur Trip 2007 – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Nagpur Trip 2007    			


Nagpur is growing at a fast pace.  It becomes obvious right from the airport.  The airport is going through a major renovation and new construction phase.  In the city also one sees signs of growth everywhere.  City has expanded in every direction.  One sees construction everywhere.  
Nagpur has been able to maintain wider and well maintained roads now for quite some time.  Clearly it feels like one of the better cities in India.  Of course, the recent news articles about the growth of Nagpur as a top second tier city has definitely affected land prices here.  I heard several anecdotal accounts of prices increasing several time — sometime becoming close to 5 times in the last 2-3 years.  And it appears that this trend will continue.  This is definitely resulting in cost of living going up very rapidly.  One can not help wonder how long is this going to continue.
One can also see many shopping complexes.  Though the size of the malls is not comparable to what I saw in Bangalore or Mumbai, the number seems to be growing very rapidly and the size and quality also seems to be improving.
One area has been disappointing to me.  I feel that in terms of value for money, the hotels are not good.  There are very few good hotels here and the one that are OK are quite expensive.  For example the hotel where I commonly stay — the Centerpoint Hotel — is one of the best in city and for the price that I am paying here, I am sure I can get better room in second tier cities in USA or many other countries.  I think this will change soon because new businesses will increase demand for better hotels and the competition may bring down the prices.  But then one can not be sure because in Bangalore and Mumbai that has not happened.  Hotels there have outrageous prices and have not grown to keep up with demands.
This is supposed to be winter but it is quite warm during the day.  Today it was close to 90 Fahrenheit.



By Ramesh |
    				December 26, 2007 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Back in India
Indian Weddings →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


