https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/indian-weddings








Indian Weddings – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Indian Weddings    			


I am attending an Indian wedding in India after a long time.  Indian weddings are a lot more ‘grand’ affair than weddings I have attended (and organized) in USA.  They are long — 3 days of action — and involve lot more functions and people.  They are also very expensive.  Since I am currently only on the second day, I have yet to enjoy the main events.
What I enjoyed on the first day was running into some old friends — friends I had not seen for 30 years.  It brings back lots of memories.   
Another interesting thing about this wedding is that the bride now lives in London and the groom is a Gujarati British person.  There are about 75 people from UK attending the wedding.  I had attended earlier version of this wedding in London so met several people there.  All these people are very friendly and affectionate.  It hase been a pleasent experience.
I can not get over the logistics involved and expenses related to the wedding, however.



By Ramesh |
    				December 27, 2007 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Nagpur Trip 2007
Indian Wedding 2 →



			One thought on “Indian Weddings”		




Mike January 4, 2008 at 7:56 pm 

What I know is that the Indian people are very passionate souls and they love to mingle or socialize with their fellows.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


