https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/visiting-new-delhi








Visiting New Delhi – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Visiting New Delhi    			


On my way back from Nagpur to USA, I made my first stop in New Delhi.  
New Delhi has many new roads (since my last visit in 2003) and many new will open soon.  An ambitious publis transport is also being built.  It does look very good growth.  But at this moment, traffic is terrible.  Hopefully with all this new construction, it will be much better in a few years.  But people living there were not sure about that.
Gurgaon is what I expected.  Many new and good buildings.  And lots of shopping malls.  There is lots of construction going everywhere.  It appears that things are really happening.
So all the hype that you hear about India seems to be right.  Tings are happening and India has a strong growth trajectory.  Road system seems to be improving.  Power situation does not seem to be improving, however.  In Nagpur there were regular load shedding programs — twice a day.  The education system is something that is really bad.  I will touch on that sometime soon — but I was terrified to see the education situation.  If there is a real serious area that needs attention, clearly that is education.



By Ramesh |
    				January 3, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Nagpur Trip 2007:2
Seraja Software →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


