https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/geotagging-2








Geotagging – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Geotagging    			


It is expected that just in a few more years, most cameras may come with GPS and all photos will have the location, latitude and logitude, in their metadata such as EXIF.  This will help in organizing photos.  This may also help a lot more in analyzing photos and organizing them meaningfully for retrieval.  It is clear that time and location are two major factors that will help in retrieving personal photos.  For retrieving other people’s [photos or collections, one may need to use other factors.
Though the location is not yet available in most cameras, the usefulness of location has been well recognized.  Many photo sites, including Flickr and Picasa, provide facilities to do geotagging.  Using this facility, you can place your photos on a specific location on a map and then browse/retrieve photos based on their location.
A good review of this feature, commonly called geotagging, is given here.  Not surprisingly, Flickr does the best — they have been doing this for the longest time.



By Ramesh |
    				January 10, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← TATA and Rs 1 Lakh Car
Computer Vision in Computing →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


