https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/multimedia-content-access








Multimedia Content Access – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Multimedia Content Access    			


Yesterday I attended a conference on Multimedia Content Access in San Jose.  During the conference Simone Santini turned to me and asked whether much of the the research presented there was very similar to the one presented a decade ago or not.  And honestly, many papers reminded me of the state of art from a decade ago.  People are still using the same data set and incrementally — if at all — refining similar techniques.  Very surprising that things have not changed much.
Agreed that the problems are hard.  But when problems are hard, you should be more creative and look at the problems in more interesting ways — do some ‘out-of-the-box’ thinking and experiments rather than doing the same thing and hoping for the best.  On the lighter side this looks like Hindi movies or soaps — keep doing the same things and keep going to temple hoping that God will change things.  Seriously, however, it is disappointing and frustrating to see that people don’t want to solve problems just somehow publish papers.



By Ramesh |
    				February 1, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Face recognition — one more claim
Tom Brady – a fighter →



			One thought on “Multimedia Content Access”		


Pingback: Movies and Film Blog » Multimedia Content Access 



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


