https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/tom-brady-a-fighter








Tom Brady – a fighter – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Tom Brady – a fighter    			


Tom Brady is now considered one of the best quarteback ever.  His life story is not Cindrella story, however — in fact exactly opposite.  He had to fifght on every step.  See a nice story.  I found this a very inspiring story — an important section says it all:

When someone is as accomplished as Brady — as rich and talented and handsome and universally respected — it only makes sense that he got every break along the way. But Brady is actually distinguished by all the breaks that went against him, starting in ’91, and how he responded to each one. The setbacks are what separate him.

I am looking forward to seeing what he does on Sunday.  Can he become the leader of the first team to go 19-0 in the history?  But independent of what happens, he is a winner.



By Ramesh |
    				February 2, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		7 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Multimedia Content Access
Events becoming popular →



			7 thoughts on “Tom Brady – a fighter”		


Pingback: Football » Tom Brady - a fighter 




Suzi February 5, 2008 at 2:04 pm 

Karma came back to bite them.  A team can’t be involved in cheating scandals and be considered “perfect”.








Ramesh  Post authorFebruary 5, 2008 at 11:06 pm 

Yes, they lost and could not be the perfect team.  First it was really a great last drive by Eli Manning — in particular one amazing (and slightly lucky) play.  In any case, we can say what we want about the ‘cheating’ — but my views were about Brady not about the coach.








minyak lintah February 7, 2008 at 1:43 pm 

Thats a inspiring story.. im not into american football but i enjoy good read like that.








Myspacespells>>Ciara February 8, 2008 at 2:39 am 

Tom Brady is good quarterback, but I do not think he is the best one.  For everything in life, you have to fight, but it is great to hear some amazing stories about how people become successful.






Pingback: Tom Brady » Tom Brady - a fighter 




Vision Board February 27, 2010 at 12:31 am 

People who really believe in their self usually become successful. I bet that is one of the reason why Brady is considered as the  quarterback.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


