https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/computational-journalism








Computational Journalism – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Computational Journalism    			


Wikipedia defines 

Journalism is the discipline of gathering, writing and reporting news, and broadly it includes the process of editing and presenting the news articles. Journalism applies to various media, but is not limited to newspapers, magazines, radio, and television.

It further says:

Journalism’s activities include stating What, When, Where, How, and Why, famously quoted by Rudyard Kipling (see the Five Ws), and stating the significance and effects of certain events or trends. Journalism exists in a number of media: newspapers, television , radio, magazines and, most recently, the World Wide Web through the Internet.

EventWeb will be the beginning of the new journalism — it could become a nice combination of event database, wiki, blig, and socialnetworking around events.  This will help right events gain popularity and will provide multiple perspectives on each event and its cause and effects.  This definitely has a potential to revolutionize journalism as we know.
At Georgia Tech, there is an interesting Symposium being organized.  You can get more details on this here at
http://www.computational-journalism.com/symposium/index.php  The organizers of this symposium have put together a group of journalists, Newsindustry people, and technologists to present their ideas on the future of this very important activity in modern society.  This symposium has potential to start bridging some exciting activities in different areas that could be channeled as a new discipline.



By Ramesh |
    				February 11, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← US Universities setting Outposts
Human Sensors →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


