https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/applications-of-face-recognition








Applications of Face Recognition – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Applications of Face Recognition    			


Many people claim that they have face recognition solution.  Face recognition is definitely a very important application.  A company in Singapore (www.xidtech.com) has interesting approach to application of face recognition.  They call it face synthesis approach.  This approach relies on creating a three dimensional model of the face, usually using only one photo, and creating thousands of photos of the person under different conditions using this model.  They store all these models and use them in applications like access control.  It is a very clever idea and could in fact be used in many other interesting applications.
To see details of their operation, you can see two video clips: clip 1 here and clip 2 here.
This technology is already being applied in interesting environments.  I think with appropriate modifications, it could even be applied in consumer application for managing photos.
(Disclaimer: I am an advisor to XiD.)



By Ramesh |
    				February 15, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← MahaExodus:  Navanirman or Satyanash
Indian Obsession with Non-issues →



			One thought on “Applications of Face Recognition”		




Avi February 16, 2008 at 4:02 am 

the website http://www.gizmoz.com/ also does something related to this topic.  It really does look interesting…. . it was released some 10 months back… 
avi







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


