https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/computational-journalism-day-1








Computational Journalism: Day 1 – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Computational Journalism: Day 1    			


I am in Atlanta, at TSRB on the campus of Georgia Tech, attending a Symposium on Computational Journalism.Â  This is the first event of this kind and I already feel that this is likely to become a field of some good activity.The first (half) day had two keynote talks and 4 panels.  See details at http://www.computational-journalism.com/symposium/index.php.
There are more than 200 people attending this event — most from journalism and related areas.  It is clear that Journalists, at least many who are here, believe that old journalism is dying and a new type of journalism is emerging — a fundamentally different one.  Mark Skoler had an exciting key note talk after a very informative keynote by Krishna Bharat.  Both these talks were very exciting and laid a good foundation for discussion later on.  Krishna by providing all details of Google News and Mike by bringing in exciting new possibilities.
Not surprisingly, this is all about events.  And social networking is very hot here.  
It has been a very exciting meeting so far.  There is a full day today — including a panel in which I participate.  I am looking forward to meeting some interesting and innovative people.



By Ramesh |
    				February 23, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		4 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Another Non-issue gaining importance
Nostalgia in Atlanta at TSRB →



			4 thoughts on “Computational Journalism: Day 1”		




Saurav Sahay February 23, 2008 at 11:13 am 

I really enjoyed your talk and the presentation here at the CJ symposium. I could see lots of challenging research opportunities in your talk as a PhD student here at Georgia Tech. There are so many different but related perspectives of the similar problem for creating the grand intelligent semantic web that we all envision.
I look forward to experimenting with the EventWeb system.
Regards,
Saurav








Robert February 23, 2008 at 12:17 pm 

Dear Sir,
I reading your Blog soon long time and i like it. Kepp up your good work.
Regards,
Robert – Admin of:
http://www.directoryelite.com
http://www.bidladder.com
http://www.rudyroots.org








Ramesh  Post authorFebruary 25, 2008 at 10:45 am 

Saurav,
If you like to experiment with our system, you can first play a bit with http://www.seraja.com — it is still on the web — and then I can connect you with some people in my group who are working on a open source version of the software.
I would love to see you work with the software.
Of course, i would love to hear about your research interests in this area — lets take that on e-mail.








Andrew Haeg February 25, 2008 at 10:58 am 

Was fascinated and challenged by your talk.  I’m curious to get a better understanding of what the EventWeb is … and how it might work.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


