https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/nostalgia-in-atlanta-at-tsrb








Nostalgia in Atlanta at TSRB – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Nostalgia in Atlanta at TSRB    			


 Attending a symposium in TSRB Bldg at Georgia Tech brought back several memories.  I was one of the first occupants in this bldg — funnily even after leaving more than 3 years ago, I still found that the directory on the third floor showed that Ramesh Jain is in office 344.  This area has grown into a very lively part of the campus — with a variety or restaurants located among several research laboratories and academic departments.  In addition they have a large Barnes and Nobles bookstore here and a Hotel — Georgia Tech Hotel — where I am staying.
I was able to spend some time discussing with Pilho Kim a very hardworking and ambitious Ph D student who started working with me and should now finish his degree.  I am hoping to help him in graduation — though I can not be his advisor now.  Meeting other frinds from past — Kishore Ramachandran, ChinHui Lee, Jim Foley, Irfan Essa, and Thad Sterner brought back lots of memory — in addition to having exciting discussions.  Wayne Wulf has joined as Farmer Professor — the Chair that I had — and told me that he visited the Farmer family and they were concerned about my health.  Some people are so nice — and clearly Farmers are one of those.
In addition to these, I had time to catch up with David McCoy — a Gartner Fellow who made BAM a popular term –and had dinner with him at Dante’s — definitely one the experiential dining place in Atlanta.
This place is a vibrant place and lots of exciting things seem to be happening here 



By Ramesh |
    				February 25, 2008 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Computational Journalism: Day 1
Computational Journalism Day 2 →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


