https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/computational-journalism-day-2








Computational Journalism Day 2 – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Computational Journalism Day 2    			


The second day of the symposium on Computational Journalism was also very interesting.
Clearly, this is the area where some interesting innovations are likely to come both from computational side as well as from journalism side.  At the symposium people were excited but not yet critical.  I guess that is how the first conference is — peopl are trying to understand the terminology of other areas and presenting their issues only at the first level of difficulties.  As one goes deeper, one understands the issues better and finds real challenges.
The most interesting thing was to see how many new experiments are being done in journalism using new technologies and how many start-up companies seem to be emerging.
I was also on a panel and talked about the role of Events and EventWeb in Journalism.  Based on questions, comments, and coffee time discussions, it appears that people found my perspective interesting.  You can see my talk here.



By Ramesh |
    				February 26, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Nostalgia in Atlanta at TSRB
Searching real world using images from mobile →



			2 thoughts on “Computational Journalism Day 2”		




Women's Info February 27, 2008 at 7:02 pm 

The five W’s make up for any good article.
Thanks Again for reminding me of that.








Robert March 3, 2008 at 7:04 am 

hi,
Thanks for  sharing your talk. 
Regards,
Robert – Admin of:
http://www.directoryelite.com
http://www.bidladder.com
http://www.rudyroots.org







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


