https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/intelligence-analysts








Intelligence Analysts – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Intelligence Analysts    			


As they say:  To a person with a hammer, every problem in the world is head of a nail.  And I am a person excited about EventWeb.  So when I read about the program in A-SpceX that is tying to develop very progessive tools for Intelligence Analysts, I felt that this is nothing but an EventWeb.  Ultimately most analysis is relating events to each other — mostly discuvering causal relationships among past events leading to an event of interest.  And going forward it becomes projecting causality among events for future.
Give that we did not have and do not have good mechanisms to deal with information related to events and repationships among events, no surprise that such analysis has been tedious except in those areas where closed form mathematical solutions could be developed.  So it is clear to me that EventWeb tools will  become very effective in Intelligence Analysis.

This is true, however, for most analysis whether scientific, dinancial, or intelligence.  Analysis is the same basic process with differences due to domain and problem being analyzed.



By Ramesh |
    				March 11, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Seraja Reincarnation at UCI
East and West →



			One thought on “Intelligence Analysts”		




Mr. ADSL March 15, 2008 at 6:30 pm 

Did you tested or using EventWeb? I am searching some more info as it seems very usefull for my own researches.
Nico







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


