https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/suffering-fools








Suffering Fools – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Suffering Fools    			


Diplomacy and maintaining good relationships demand that one suffers fools gladly.  But should one?
This is an interesting question and has an obvious answer.  But it is one of those that are not really so easy.  The obvious answer of not suffering fools is easy to say but difficult to really practice for most except some who are either geniuses or too arrogant to care for others.  So the right question may be ‘how much’ should you be willing to suffer fools.  And I have been trying to find an answer for that for long time without success.  
This thought was triggered when somebody complimented a friend that he des not suffer fools easily.  And in that particular case, I did not think that the action referred to had anything to do with foolish behaviour — it was more difference in perspective.



By Ramesh |
    				March 17, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Basic Research in Singapore
Research in Singapore →



			One thought on “Suffering Fools”		




Ben Murphy March 27, 2008 at 6:54 pm 

I don’t actually agree!
It is possible to be diplomatic, maintain relationships and get exactly what you want, without having to anything other than use clever manipulation techniques.
I learnt this in business studies way back in the first year…







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


