https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/knowledge-science-3








Knowledge Science 3 – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Knowledge Science 3    			


One would think that people from every part of the world may think in similar way.  I just came across a very interesting book — The Geography of Thought by Richard Nisbett.  This book argues how people from west think very differently from Asian people.  I will share my thoughts on this and similar books — I am in the mode of lots of reading — as I find interesting and kind of surprising ideas.
A veryintiguing idea put forward in this book is that Western thinking rests on the assumption that the behavior of objects can be understood using simple rules.  Different situations must be categorized so one can select appropriate rules for analysis.  In contrast, Asian thinking looks at broad context.  They consider that understanding events requires consideration of a host of factors that are inter-related.  To quote from the book about Asia thinking:

Formal logic plays little role in problem solving.  In fact, the person who is too concerned with logic may be considered immature.

This book is going to be a fun book.  Interestingly, however, this book does not consider Indian thinking.  I know that the India thinking is close to Asian (Chinese) thinking but is very different.  It will be great to compare that also along with these two schools of thought.



By Ramesh |
    				April 3, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← 3-D viewfinder for photos
In Florence →



			3 thoughts on “Knowledge Science 3”		


Pingback: » Knowledge Science 3 




Linan April 9, 2008 at 7:11 am 

Could you please explain a little bit about the differences between India and Chinese thinking style? Thank you.








Haustiere April 16, 2008 at 9:03 pm 

Well, I think the way asian people think are almost the same except the culture and the values being followed. Moreover we can argue if asian are smart or non-asian?







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


