https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/subtitles-to-teach-reading








Subtitles to teach reading – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Subtitles to teach reading    			


Ish Rishabh sent me a very interesting article by Gurcharan Das.  Ish writes that
I never knew that subtitling the song might help people learn how to read. In fact, I used to find subtitling irritating. So it was interesting to note that people can form association of textual representation of a word and the audio of that word.
Mr Das in his wonderful style concludes on a very important point:
You’d think that the best way to bring about change in a democracy is through politics. But when our political class is callous, unreliable and venal, you have to depend on individuals. India has always had our spiritual entrepreneurs, the most famous being the Buddha. In recent years we have seen the flowering of business entrepreneurs, making India one of the world’s most dynamic economies. Now, we have also begun to produce social entrepreneurs like Brij Kothari who are making a difference. Hence, India is rising not because of its political leaders but despite them. 




By Ramesh |
    				April 16, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Knowledge Science 5: Orality and Literacy
Beijing →



			3 thoughts on “Subtitles to teach reading”		




Aoleon April 17, 2008 at 6:34 am 

I think both music and games can be incredibly educational – especially for kids.  You can teach kids how to read, do math, science, and more via games and making leaning fun.  
Great post!








Media Movers, Inc. April 17, 2008 at 10:10 am 

Same language subtitling (SLS) is one of essential way to educate people. 
But wrong text/adaption can be deterrent to such process.
Closed-Captioning  should also be  implemented  in countries like India for the deaf/heard of hearing population.
Media Movers, Inc.








Search Torrent February 1, 2009 at 8:11 am 

I think subtitles can be very educational – especially when trying to learn a foreign language.  I sometimes watch movies with a foreign language turned on as the audio with english subtitles so I can try to learn that language.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


