https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/beijing








Beijing – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Beijing    			


I arrived in Beijing for WWW 2008.  I will give a talk at a workshop and participate on a panel.  That begins tomorrow.
I arrived yesterday evening — local time, 15 hours ahead of USA, so it is Monday morning now.
The new airport is very impressive — nice imposing architecture with lots of nice shape.  All modern facilities.  Clearly CHina wants to impress the world as a leader.  And they have done every thing to make sure that physical facilities are world class.  Roads were equally impressive.  Unfortunately it has been raining so I have not yet been out of the hotel — may venture soon.  Have to visit Nuistars office this evening so will have to venture out — before that I want to go and register for the conference.
First impression about the service is not in the same class as about the physical facilities.  In addition to language, something else seems to be lacking.  I will observe this and other things over the next few days — it is too early to form any concrete impression on that.
I have been thinking a lot about Web Science.  Hopefully my talk tomorrow will reflect that.



By Ramesh |
    				April 20, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Subtitles to teach reading
Web Science →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


