https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/web-science








Web Science – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Web Science    			


Yesterday I attended a workshop on Web Science.  See for more details and the program.
Web Science is an interesting evolving area.  Since people from so many different discipline are working in aspects of the Web and its further evolution depends on combination of technology, social infrastructure around it, and businesses, the whole area becomes very interesting.  This workshop did have people from all these areas and discussions and presentations were interesting.
I was on program, in fact, as the Key Note speaker.  I talked about Events in Web Science.  I emphasized that the Web is going from Documents to Data and Objects, but soon it will see Events as major components.  My talk should be available from their web site, but if not, I’d be happy to send it to you.  
The talk did creat some very good discussion.  It appears that time has come and people see the role of events and need to develop technology related to it very clearly.



By Ramesh |
    				April 22, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Beijing
Web Science 2 →



			2 thoughts on “Web Science”		




Besplatne Stvari April 26, 2008 at 6:41 am 

Web Science is an interesting evolving area.








SEO Philadelphia April 30, 2008 at 2:15 am 

Yes, it will be interesting to see how the changes or the evolutions in the web science will change the technology and up to what extent; at least it could be assumed that web science evolution will certainly make things easier.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


