https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/everything-ok








Everything OK – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Everything OK    			


Since many of my friends ask me about my yearly medical check-up due to my health problem of a few years ago, here is the first part of the repot.  Everything is going OK with respect to Cancer — no problems there.  They will still want me to put through CAT and PET scans in about a month.  Of course, my knee is a different matter.  I do need to get it fixed.
I heard a very bad News, however, during my meeting with my Oncologist — Dr. Bill Miller.  He told me that Dr. Matt Brunson who performed surgery on me and was the lead doctor in my treatment is having some serious health problems.  Sudha and I were shocked by this.  He used to be a great surgeon and an inspiration.  We liked him so much.  And he is a young person — definitely much younger than me.  It used to be so much fun to talk to him.  This was a terrible news for us.  This only reminds us that diseases can hit any one of us at any time.  We are all fragile — we don’t know when something can hit us.  All that we can do is to be careful.  
Our best wishes and prayers are with Dr. Brunson.



By Ramesh |
    				April 28, 2008 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← IIT Brands
Knee Surgery →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


