https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/web-science-3








Web Science 3 – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Web Science 3    			


On Friday I had a chance to spend 2 hours discussing Web with Tim Berners-Lee.  Tim is the founder and father of the WWW.  The most important aspect of WWW is not only the technology but the social aspects of its evolution.  And Tim is a key factor behind both.  
Wendy Hall from Southampton had told me about him and I had spend some time discussing with him in a dinner meeting in Beijing.  Of course one can read a lot about him on the WWW.  But this meeting gave me a better glimse of why WWW is what it is and who Tim is.  Even after all this success, he is still a hacker who wants to be able to do interesting thing using this toy called computer and the network.  He is a true believer in the web or in the network.  And he believes that this could help solve many knowledge and societal problems.  
Two main topics of our discussion were experiemtial computing based on events and the Web doe Masses.  I loved our discussion — learnt some new things and acquired a deeper belief in the web effect.  My belief that events are a strong mechanism for creating deeper web also became stronger.
It will be great to work with Tim, Wendy, and others in exploring event related aspects of Web Science, creating EventWeb, and applying this among others to really create the Web that is World Wide by increasing its reach even to wider segment of humans in deeloping countries in remote areas.
Incidentally, my presentation for the Web Science Workshop in Beijing is available here.



By Ramesh |
    				May 4, 2008 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Knee Surgery
On Selecting a Research Problem →



			One thought on “Web Science 3”		


Pingback: Web Science 3 



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


