https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/on-selecting-a-research-problem








On Selecting a Research Problem – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				On Selecting a Research Problem    			


In academic research discussions, it is very common that when thinking of solving a problem people start wondering whether it has scientific merit.  Andf in many cases the discussions stop becuse people think that the problem may be solved using one of the standard techniques and hence there may be no scientific rewards in pursuing the problem.

In many cases one may find this intuition to be right, but I have experienced and seen in other cases that worrying too early about scientific merit is not very scientific.  Science is getting in depth to understand nature of things.  Many great research paradigms get established because somebody looks at an old problem from a new perspective and this new perspective leads to entirely new solutions.
I find it rewarding to focus more on solving a real problem without worrying whether there is a scientific merit only after I find a solution.  Even if the solution is old, I am pleased that we have solved a problem.  And if we discover that there is scientific merit in the soltion, then I publish it.  It is also interesting to see that if you solve a real problem, then you are helping lots of people and you may even be rewarded in terms of publications in some very good journals that are read by lots of people.  Many times there is ‘prestige’ associated in publishing in conferences and journals which are only read by ‘scientific experts’.  These experts only places worry more about scientific merit and novelty rather than a real problem that needs to be solved.
As a researcher, you have to decide who is your audience and depending on that you can decide which problem to address and how you want to develop the solution.  And this decision is one of the most important decision to be made in your scienitific career.



By Ramesh |
    				May 5, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Web Science 3
Telepresence and E2E →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


