https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/telepresence-and-e2e








Telepresence and E2E – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Telepresence and E2E    			


Wall Street Journal had an article today about Telepresence.  Traditional video conferencing systems are slowly morphing into telepresence systems.
Traditional videoconferencing setups are essentially a monitor, camera and microphone, placed in a conventional conference room. Telepresence systems, by contrast, require specially designed rooms with multiple cameras, sound-damping equipment and high-definition video screens. They simulate the sensation of two groups of people at identical tables facing each other through windows.
In our research group, we are developing Environment-to-Environment (E2E) communication environment.  These environments, we believe, will provide better functionality that telepresence and will be much cheaper.  Moreover they will have graceful degradation — meaning one can use simple one camera — maybe even your mobile phone set up to a sophisticated immersive environment.  That research is progressing very well.  We recently wrote a techincal paper on that topic and submitted that for potential publication.  Following standard procedure, I will not put the manuscipt for open circulation, but will be happy to share on limited basis with interested people.



By Ramesh |
    				May 6, 2008 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← On Selecting a Research Problem
EventWeb Symposium →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


