https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/what-did-we-do-before-computers








What did we do before computers? – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				What did we do before computers?    			


So I spent my first day after getting back.  And I spend some of it reading, some of it taking care of routine things and much of it on the Web.
What did people do before the Web?  Oh yes, I remember reading books.  We do that even now also — but we can do that better on the Web.
It is a different world when you have access to the Web.  It opens up so many interesting ‘viewports’ for you — you can select what you want and what you like.  Too bad that either many people don’t realize the importance and many others don’t have access to it.  Just think how it can help people in developing countries.  In fact, tho



By Ramesh |
    				May 19, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Going Home
What did we do before the Web? →



			2 thoughts on “What did we do before computers?”		




soma May 22, 2008 at 1:40 pm 

Well, I do lots of thing like reading books playing outdoors not like today. People today is always rely on computer.








Richard July 28, 2009 at 9:58 pm 

We did so many things that kids and teenagers do.  But now we spend most of our free time in front of a PC.  Even my 2 year old thinks of the PC the moment he wakes up.  (He wants to see pictures of aeroplanes on YouTube.)







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


