https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/language-for-experiences








Language for Experiences – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Language for Experiences    			


I have been reading lots of books related to experience, knowledge, insights and related things.  one message that comes out loud and clear is that experience is the beginning of most scientific and other knowledge.  Whether it is an apple’s fall or Arhimidese’s bath, trivial looking experiences have resulted in profound insights leading to revolutionary discoveries and paradigm changing theories.
If we could find a way to harness people’s experiences — similar to what we did to what people could articulate using language — then rapid progress could be made in many fields.  Many difficult fields where people had dificulty articulating their thoughts and ideas using current languages, may be captured easier by using a language of experiences.  That does have a serious hurdle — a language to articulate experiences.  Not an easy task — but definitely seems like an effort worth pursuing.



By Ramesh |
    				May 27, 2008 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Empty emotionalism
Media and experiences →



			One thought on “Language for Experiences”		




David Sonnen May 30, 2008 at 8:06 pm 

Hi Ramesh,
What an interesting insight!  
I think that your idea strikes out along a path similar to the notion of events that we discussed a few years ago.  Back then, we wrestled with the problem of capturing the full context of an event.  You made a lot more progress in that area than I.  But, the problem is still hard; interesting but really hard.  
A language of experience seems like a way to capture more of the context that surrounds our individual existances.  That language should include the complex and fleeting web of social interactions and conventions that help shape our behavior.  Environmental context would be part of the language as well.  I’m sure the language would have many more facets. (“Facets” may imply more structure than can exist)
Thinking out loud for a few sentences….   Phenomena like Google, Twitter, wiki’s, blogs and such capture more and more content from an incresingly diverse and nichey population.   That diffluent content swirls, boils and evaporates into Internet atmosphere, to condense and rain down somewhere.  I wonder if that seemingly chaotic content contains your language of experience, somehow?
Lets catch up.  It’s been too long since we talked.
Dave







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


