https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/media-and-experiences








Media and experiences – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Media and experiences    			


Marshall MuLuhan had many interesting insights about media.  His argument — that media are “extensions” of our human senses, bodies and minds — has always intrigued me.  I read his books long ago — decided to revisit them again.  Just started going thru Gutenberg Galaxy.  When I looked at it first time — several years ago — I did not find it that interesting.  I must have either matured or my interest in this area must have deepened because this time I find it very interesting.
Experience is the result of our use of our senses.  And commonly we assume that senses are just mediums or channels.  But is that true?  Can we really consider them as simple channels.  It appears that our senses are closely intertwined and interdependent.  Any change — refinement, degradation, or changes of any other kind — in a sense has significant influence on other senses and hence on the overall experience.  This is obvious, but how can a technology related to one sense may revolutionize or transform our total experience and thinking is not as obvious as McLuhan tries to convince us.
Definitely very intriguing.



By Ramesh |
    				May 31, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Language for Experiences
Arun Hampapur — Distinguished Engineer at IBM →



			One thought on “Media and experiences”		




Vxcl August 14, 2009 at 10:08 am 

I read about him a long time ago when I was still in school and he really captivated me.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


