https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/ipl-tournament-in-india








IPL Tournament in India – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				IPL Tournament in India    			


I was following IPM tournament (Cricket 20/20) on Cricinfo.com.  The final was a true cliff-hanger.  Rajasthan won by scoring the last required run on the last ball of the 20th over.  A classic for ages!
This match was a fitting finish to a near perfect tournament — based on reports in the News media.  This was the first ‘professional’ sports tournament organized at such a high level. They followed all the practices for recruiting international players that one commonly sees in USA and Europe.  They even brought in Cheer Leaders from USA.  It appears, though, that the concept of cheer leaders did not work well in India.  The tournament was well run.  And luckily it appears that games provided enough excitement.
It is really nice to see such activities executed well in India.  We are used to seeing sloppy execution in different aspects of organizations.  This appears to be a good beginning of well executed events.  I am very happy.



By Ramesh |
    				June 1, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Arun Hampapur — Distinguished Engineer at IBM
Maybe this time Speech Interfaces are really coming →



			One thought on “IPL Tournament in India”		




India News June 7, 2008 at 11:56 pm 

You are right ! IPL was a run-away hit, although the planning was not up to mark.  Hope next time round they would be better planned !







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


