https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/acm-multimedia-information-retrieval








ACM Multimedia Information Retrieval – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				ACM Multimedia Information Retrieval    			


The workshop on Multimedia Information Retrieval (ACM MIR) will become a conference beginning this year.  This is likely to give a new venue for mature research in this area.  THis definitely shows the need for and maturing of multimedia information retieval.
Multimedia research in academia usually ends up being mono-media.  We academicians like to show that we are rigorous and our current research tools allow dealing with reductionist approach and hence with isolated concepts easier than with interelated concepts.  Multimedia requires dealing with partial information that may be coming from multiple sources and that is not something that academics will like.  I believe that multimedia will be easier than mono.  It will take time for researchers to change their culture and get into solving real problems and then bring in interelated information and context from multiple sources to solve the difficult problems in image, video and audio related information retrieval.
As for the ACM MIR conference, I liked two things.  First — right in the first topic (Exploration of media archives they list experiential computing.  Second – it seems that they are inviting people to talk about brave new ideas in which they want statement of bold research.  If they can really get this to happen and then follow up on that, this will be a great idea.  Usually such ideas start with good intentions but then are not well executed.  Hopefully this will be executed well by them at this conference.



By Ramesh |
    				June 9, 2008 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Experiential Computing
Information Sites in Multimedia →



			One thought on “ACM Multimedia Information Retrieval”		


Pingback: ACM Multimedia Information Retrieval 



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


