https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/information-sites-in-multimedia








Information Sites in Multimedia – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Information Sites in Multimedia    			


Maybe I am just ignorant of this, but I feel that Multimedia research community does not have resource sites where one could go to find information, data, algorithms, research places, products and such.
If I need to run some experiments in clustering photos of the same event captured by multiple people (say Tom’s Wedding — where 25 cameras were used) — or just a collection of photos with EXIF data and some classification.
Or if I want to use somebody’s published algorithm — yes opencv is a step in a righ direction but is limited and is not that well maintained.  I don’t even have an easy way to find all the places that are doing research in multimedia ontologies and such.
Why is it that such sites don’t exist?  W have so many professional organizations.  Should one of those take lead and build such a site?
Or is it that I feel the need for such a site, but there is no need for this.



By Ramesh |
    				June 12, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← ACM Multimedia Information Retrieval
One Month Later →



			3 thoughts on “Information Sites in Multimedia”		


Pingback: Information Sites in Multimedia 




Namensbedeutung June 23, 2008 at 4:05 am 

there’s a lot of multimedia sites that provides rich information.. try to check flickr for example.








SEO Philadelphia June 26, 2008 at 12:07 am 

I can’t say it perfectly that we should have these kind of sites but seems like a good idea.  It might be the case that people are ignorant of the benefits of such sites till date or may be Google is enough for them..!
However i think that steps should be taken in this regard as well, this will certainly help multimedia community.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


