https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/iphone-or-mcomputer








iPhone or mComputer – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				iPhone or mComputer    			


More you read about iPhone and think about it, more you are convinced that the strategy is to popularize a device that will be a mobile computer, rather than a phone.
I like the direction.  This is revolutionary.



By Ramesh |
    				July 10, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		8 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Can we go beyond Gutenberg?
Spreading Joy →



			8 thoughts on “iPhone or mComputer”		




MBA Programs July 24, 2008 at 4:22 am 

Many people are of this opinion that a phone will always be just a phone, regardless of the capabilities that are added, but frankly speaking, they will become something else when talk about their operational capabilities. Today we may buy  laptops to complement our desktops. Tomorrow it might be the case that we will buy smart phones for many or most of these mobile functions. 
Smart phone is not invented by Apple but one can not ignore the fact that the iPhone has now become the standard by which all smart phones are now judged. There are various factors which could dominate the market like methods to access the functions, the nature of the design, and even the look of the device etc.








Bling September 8, 2009 at 6:07 am 

Within a short time, it’s changed many aspects of our lives.  My kids with their iphones are very different from us at their age.








Luke September 17, 2009 at 7:49 pm 

The mobile computer is practical to our needs so I’m sure it is the direction.  I’m sure it will be very popular as it gets affordable.








Free iPhone 3GS September 24, 2009 at 3:45 pm 

The thing about the iPhone is, it’s made a personal pocket computer/PDA tool that was only for geeks or business people hip for the socialites!!
Everyone has to have one so they can stay connected be it by phone call, text message, e-mail, facebook or twitter. The fact it’s stylish and essentially the iPod touch with a phone and other features built in made it an easy gadget to push to those that would of never otherwised considered a pocket PC.
Well done Apple!!








Dr. Rory Lewis September 30, 2009 at 10:48 pm 

Yes, the  iPhone has now become the standard.  I recently went to the iPhone 360iDev in Denver and in the 474 days since teh iPhone began – over 50 million devices have downloaded close to a billions apps.  The iPhone and the iTablet are only beginning.








ultimatum October 25, 2009 at 7:12 am 

yes, iphone can change and easy to our lives.iphone is the future for everyone.








crespo October 29, 2009 at 6:23 pm 

iphone is the best smart phone!








Debbie Gordon November 7, 2009 at 7:10 pm 

The iPhone is a mobile computer that happens to have a phone.  An amazing device that is truly changing the world.
Give it 5 years and you will leave the house with only your iPhone as it will replace your wallet.
Debbie







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


