https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/mir-1-data-sets








MIR 1: Data Sets – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				MIR 1: Data Sets    			


I have been thinking a bit about multimedia information retrieval.  So there maybe a few posts related to this topic.
I will start by saying that it has been nice to see that there is a nice data set that is collected and could be used for testing and evalyation purposes.  This data set is available from http://cophir.isti.cnr.it/  .  They claim to have collected 100 Million images from Flickr in this collection.  The following is the abstract of the white paper on this site — giving idea about the collection:

As the number of digital images is growing fast and Content-based
Image Retrieval (CBIR) is gaining in popularity, CBIR systems should
leap towards Web-scale datasets. In this paper, we report on our experience
in building a test collection of more than 50 million images, with
the corresponding descriptive features, to be used in experimenting new
techniques for similarity searching. Since no collection of this scale was
available for research purpose, we had to tackle the non-trivial process of
image crawling and descriptive feature extraction (we used five MPEG-7
features) using the European EGEE computer GRID. The result of this
effort is a test collection, the first of such scale, that will be opened to the
research community for experiments and comparisons.




By Ramesh |
    				August 3, 2008 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Hypelinking Videos — Google getting into it
TinEye — An Image Search Engine →



			One thought on “MIR 1: Data Sets”		


Pingback: MIR 1: Data Sets 



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


