https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/real-and-virtual-cybereal








Real and Virtual: Cybereal – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Real and Virtual: Cybereal    			


YeSun points out that MPEG has started an initiative that has similar goals as co-space does.  This initiative is called MPEG-V.
The way things are evolving, it is clear tha the real world and virtual world will need to intermingle.  This intermingling is seamless in our thinking and has been used by story tellers —  in novels, dramas, and movies — for long time.  Now the technology is enabling intermingling of virtual and real at the level where it could become more than just a personal experience or art — it is taking it towards scince and technology.
Co-space and MPEG-V ae just the initial fforts.  What we are going to see is emergence of lots of technology — that I call Cybereal technology — that will allow people to augment real with virtual but also save thee intermingled experiences and share those with others.  This will be very exciting.



By Ramesh |
    				August 10, 2008 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← $12 Computer —  down from $100
Metamorphosis of India →



			One thought on “Real and Virtual: Cybereal”		




izmir evden eve September 24, 2008 at 12:59 am 

thanks…







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


