https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/carrot-works-in-research








Carrot works in research – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Carrot works in research    			


I was browsing thru about 40 research proposals submitted in response to a request for proosal (for obvious reasons no details on the agency and the program).  This agency requested proposals in an area –lets call it XY — and made it clear that they are only interested in XY.  It was hilarious to see that about half of the proosals really have nothing to do with XY.  The researcher is really interested in area AB (as far as it can be from XY) but they start saying that AB has been a successful approach and can really make XY successful — without AB research in XY will be incomplete and useless.  And so on.
Researchers are usually creative people and they are suppose to think hard about deep issues.  It appears, however, that our research publication and research funding oriented culture is forcing researchers to think about minimum publishable unit in research issues and both in publications as ell as in funding people spend more time thinking about how to play the game to please the reviewers and the funding agency.  Research and problem solving are taking back seats to playing the game.
I guess human beings will remain the same independent whether they are a business person, a researcher, or a politician.



By Ramesh |
    				August 26, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Indian Medals at Olympic — an interesting perspective
Economic gains are limited in India →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


