https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/going-back-to-usa








Going Back to USA — without Neil – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Going Back to USA — without Neil    			


This trip to Singapore and other places was the longest trip out of USA for me — close to two months.  Since going to USA in Jan 1978, this was the longest period I stayed out.  I am now ready to go back.
The return is unusual in one other way.  Neil came with us and is now going to stay here.  He will work here for some time — maybe 3 months, maybe longer.  His goal is to learn about start-up companies as well as about understanding how this part of the world works.  This is one of the most happening places in the world — definitely this region — Asia — of the world is where many revolutionary economic events are taking plae.  This will be a great learning experience for him.
It is always tough to be away from the family — so far away — particularly for the first time.  So it is tough for him as well as for the mother, sisters, and yes, the father.  But this will help him grow up.  And the fact is that if one has to be away from family in USA, possibly SIngapore is absolutely the best place to be.  SO though I will personally miss him, I am happy that he will become a man from a boy.
As usually happens, the first few days are a bit tough and then one gets busy.  Neil has many things to keep him busy and luckily already has friends.  I remember my going to Germany without knowing even one person.  ANd that turned out to be good.
Lot of things waiting in USA — lot of work, but also family and friends.  Time to pack comuter and go to the airport.



By Ramesh |
    				September 12, 2008 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Abstraction Matching
Video Communication is starting →



			One thought on “Going Back to USA — without Neil”		




xBrain September 15, 2008 at 12:24 pm 

I hope that you manage to get to USA safely.
Nice reading your blog mister.
This is my first time here 🙂
Regards,
xBrain







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


