https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/singapore-governement








Singapore Government – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Singapore Government    			


Singapore is a unique country.  More I know about it, more I find it intriguing and impressive.  The Government, under the legacy and mentorship of Lee Kuan Yew, is run more like a top company.  I had a discussion with Michael Parekh on this topic today.  And he sent me this article from Herald Tribune.
As the article says:

In this nation where the bottom line truly is the bottom line, the argument goes, you’ve got to pay to get them and you’ve got to pay to keep them.
“If we don’t do that, in the long term, the government system will slowly crumble and collapse,” Defense Minister Teo Chee Hean told reporters last month.

This system is the result of:

It is a pay system created in 1994 by Singapore’s founder, Lee Kuan Yew, pegging the salaries of government ministers and top civil servants to the money they might earn at the top of the private sector.

Most countries I know think very differently.  I can not help but compare it to my birth country — India.  Even my current country USA has very different thinking.  SInce Singapore has very different system, 

Singapore has one of the most efficient and corruption-free governments in the world.
It is Asia’s second-richest country after Japan, with a gross domestic product per capita of about $31,000, and Lee said it could well afford to pay its leaders top dollar.




By Ramesh |
    				September 17, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Memories For Life
The New Age of Innovation →



			One thought on “Singapore Government”		




Automoney December 29, 2009 at 11:43 pm 

Singapore is a country with no natural resources but they had leadership that is determined to put their economic future first. 
 I think this makes Singapore very different from other countries where the emphasis is more on the present.  
Perhaps democracy has a part to play in this.  Had Singapore been more democratic, you would not be able to carry out all the long term policies that were responsible for bring so much success.  Politicians will focus more on the present.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


