https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/the-new-age-of-innovation








The New Age of Innovation – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				The New Age of Innovation    			


C K Prahalad is a master in articulating powerful new ideas.  He is even better in presenting those ideas.  I just attended his talk on the new age of innovations — based on some his new book.
He emphasized importance of experience in the new world and contrasted that to focus on products. This aspect clearly reminded me about Pine and Gilmore’s book on Experience Economy.  A big twist that CK put in this is the current trend of quick feedback about consumer experience and consumer participation using emerging sensing and information networks.  He emphasized importance of ‘Personal Co-created experiences’ for emerging businesses.  He tried to relate this to bottom of the pyramid.  As usual, the talk was very engaging, thought provoking, and enjoyable.
This talk took me back to our interactions during Praja days.  It is kind of interesting that the emphasis on event based computing and experiences rather than information were the basis for founding Praja and CK has taken those concepts from technology to businesses.  It is his deep understanding and bold thinking that is behind his great ideas.



By Ramesh |
    				September 18, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Singapore Government
Multimedia Teaching — need a real text book →



			One thought on “The New Age of Innovation”		


Pingback: The New Age of Innovation 



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


