https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/multimedia-teaching-need-a-real-text-book








Multimedia Teaching — need a real text book – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Multimedia Teaching — need a real text book    			


I started teaching Multimedia class today.  I am using Li and Drew book on Multimedia as the text book and will use Steinmetz and Nahrstadt as a reference book.  These books are not bad, but they are not real text books also.  It is surprising that there is no good text book on this topic.
There is a panel on this topic — multimedia education — at ACM MM2008 in Vancouver next month.  I am on this panel.  So I can raise the issue of the text book once again.  What we really need is a book that is more than a collection of techniques on different aspects.  A unifying approach that shows why multimedia is different from collection of techniques in disparate mono-media systems is essential to really make progress in understanding why multimedia is so appealing to most humans — in fact to all.



By Ramesh |
    				September 25, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← The New Age of Innovation
Reality is funnier than satire on SNL →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


