https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/reality-is-funnier-than-satire-on-snl








Reality is funnier than satire on SNL – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Reality is funnier than satire on SNL    			


I try to stay away from politics in my blog, and this is no exception – though it may sound like political.  
Sara Palin’s interview by Katie Couric on CBS and its satire on Saturday Night Live are something that one must see — you can easily find these on net.  In SNL they used exactly the same language — the language from the real interview.  But the real interview is funnier than the SNL.  No that is not because Tina Fey’s acting — she did a great job, but somehow the real thing is still the real thing and is funnier.  
Too bad that Mr John McCain found a running mate who is so naive.  I respect him, but this selection has made me think whether he really cares for the country and what kind of team building ability he has.  It is nice to be a maveric, but in the name of maveric, one should not select totally incompetent people.  There is a difference in a maveric and an incompetent person.  I thought an experienced person like him knows that.



By Ramesh |
    				September 28, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Multimedia Teaching — need a real text book
Dumbing down OR Freeing for creativity →



			One thought on “Reality is funnier than satire on SNL”		




Baby Phat October 12, 2008 at 7:22 am 

I think that is what makes shows like the daily show funny. All they have to do is show actual footage of our politicians and it is funny.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


