https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/storytelling








Storytelling – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Storytelling    			


Storytelling is one of the oldest art — if not the oldest — practiced by humans.  I was delighted to see some very interesting points on a site pointed to my by Amarnath Gupta.  Some very insightful parts from there are given below:

Stories fill our lives in the way that water fills the lives of fish. Stories are so all-pervasive that we practically cease to be aware of them.  
“The products of our narrative schemes are ubiquitous in our lives: they fill our cultural and social environment. We create narrative descriptions for ourselves and for others about our own past actions, and we develop storied accounts that give sense to the behavior of others. We also use the narrative scheme to inform our decisions by constructing imaginative “what if” scenarios. On the receiving end, we are constantly confronted with stories during our conversations and encounters with the written and visual media. We are told fairy tales as children, and read and discuss stories in school.” (Polkinghorne)
“The narratives of the world are without number…the narrative is present at all times, in all places, in all societies; the history of narrative begins with the history of mankind; there does not exist, and never has existed, a people without narratives:” (Barthes). 
It will be great to formalize some of these to bring storytelling in EventWeb.  Fundamentally, stories are sequence of important information related to events that are considered important.



By Ramesh |
    				October 8, 2008 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Southern California Computer Vision MeetUp
Memories, Life, and Experiences →



			One thought on “Storytelling”		




Ste October 9, 2008 at 5:27 am 

I always thought that anybody should be able to tell stories until I actually tried it and realised that it is actually an art form in itself!







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


