https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/memories-life-and-experiences








Memories, Life, and Experiences – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Memories, Life, and Experiences    			


Technology does change our life style, but the basic things remain the same.  As humans, we still remain fundamentally very similar to our ancestors from thousands year ago.  Our needs, passions, ego, ambitions, and spirituality remains the same.  On the other hand, the human society has changed significantly with the help of technology.
Technology is now bringing some changes that are very fundamental to humans.  Human life is a bundle of experiences.  We experience events, and those stay in our memory.  People have been trying to create technology that will allow to save and retrieve our experiences.  Now it seems we are finally getting to the point where we can start thinking of projects to capture, organize, and retrieve experiences.  Many projects all over the world are inspired by this idea — from Memories for Life to LifeLog or MyLifeBits are inspired by this desire.  Even Flickr and Facebook are in some respect built on this desire.
More I think about this area, more it becomes clear that this is one of the most challenging problem that is now looking towards technology to solve it.  Ironically, technology has enabled capture, communication, and storage of these so easy that it has become painfully obvious that we donot have technology to organize and retrieve these experiences.



By Ramesh |
    				October 9, 2008 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Storytelling
MIR at IEEE Int Conf on Image Processing →



			2 thoughts on “Memories, Life, and Experiences”		




Cristian October 19, 2008 at 10:09 pm 

You say such beautifull words about life, its a pleasure to read your blog. God bless you and your family. Could you please tell me more, how in your opinion human society has changed significantly with the help of technology?








Tiger balm October 21, 2008 at 12:38 am 

20 years ago… many progress in Technology..
It’s a new communication, If you search on Internet, you find
I don’t like facebook and Flickr, but can you live without Internet now ?
Me, it’s my job, it’s my hobby..







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


