https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/meeting-prof-h-h-nagel








Meeting Prof. H.-H. Nagel – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Meeting Prof. H.-H. Nagel    			


I had a chance to meet Prof. Hans Helmut Nagel today for dinner.  I met him after about 25 years — but during the dinner it felt that we have been meeting regularly.  It was one of the most memorable dinner I ever had.
Prof. Nagel was my research advisor when I was in Germany as a post-doctoral research fellow.  In many ways, he was really the person who taught me importance of doing research and how to enjoy it.  In addition I learnt many things about life from him.  And he is still one of the most dedicated researcher and a person who is as curious about India’s history and civilization — among many other contry’s — as he is in how to convert video in its linguistic description.  He taught me how to critically think about different issues, including social issues, technically and deeply.   
He moved from Hamburg, where I worked with him, to Karlsruhe 26 years ago and has been here since then.
And he looks and behaves more energetically then I do.  He is trully an amazing person.
Clearly one of the most influential person in my life.



By Ramesh |
    				October 27, 2008 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Multimedia Semantics — Bridging the Semantic Gap
Models and descriptions →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


