https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/models-and-descriptions








Models and descriptions – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Models and descriptions    			


Wikipedia defines some important characteristics of models and descriptions.  On model it says:

A model in science is a physical, mathematical, or logical representation of a system of entities, phenomena, or processes. Basically a model is a simplified abstract view of the complex reality. 
 For the scientist, a model is also a way in which the human thought processes can be amplified. 
 Models in software allow scientists to leverage computational power to simulate, visualize, manipulate and gain intuition about the entity, phenomenon or process being represented

And description is:

The purpose of description is to re-create, invent, or visually present a person, place, event, or action so that the reader may picture that which is being described. 

Clearly models and descrptions play sperate roles.  Models are used for abstractions and recognizing objects, events and concepts from data.  Descriptions describe data.  Models help us in recognizing ‘concepts’ in data and extending them to define new models and concepts.  Descriptions help in preparing and saving details of a specific concept or object or event.  
I am finiding that sometimes these two things are confused in communities that are trying to extend frontiers of knowledge in computing.



By Ramesh |
    				October 28, 2008 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Meeting Prof. H.-H. Nagel
International Semantic Web Conference (ISWC2008) →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


