https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/acm-multimedia-conference








ACM Multimedia Conference – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				ACM Multimedia Conference    			


After a very tiring journey from Frankfurt to Vacouver, I arrived at ACM Multimedia.  At this conference I feel   as if I am with my family and friends.  It is always fun to be at tis conference.
At the ACM MIR, Tom Huang gave one of those talks that make you think.  He posed 7 challenges for he Multimedia Information Retrieval field and challenged the community, particularly me in my talk today, to answer those.  I have posted his questions — photos of his slides on my flickr account — so you can see those here.
I participated on a panel on multimedia education.  Interesting panel — edcation is always a challenging task, particularlarly in a new emerging field like multimedia with such diversity.  It was aptly called — ‘unity in diversity’.  It is always a challenge to decide what to include in a course — but bigger challenge is what not to include.  It was enjoyable to listen to the views of other panelists and to share mine.

This year there are more than 450 attendees at this conference.



By Ramesh |
    				October 31, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← International Semantic Web Conference (ISWC2008)
Language and the EventWeb →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


