http://www.ics.uci.edu/~stasio/winter06/lab1/lab1.html


Lab 1

Lab Warm-up: Running and Compiling an Applet

			This is a warm-up so you can experiment with java.  This exercise also 
			shows you how to construct java applets, and embed them in a webpage.
		
Blinking Text

alt="Your 
			browser understands the &ltAPPLET> tag but isn't running the applet, for some 
			reason." Your browser is completely ignoring the &ltAPPLET> tag! 

The source.

			Most of the programs that we will write for this class will be stand-alone 
			programs. However, Java also enables a way to write Applets which are programs 
			that run through a browser. For this lab warm-up you can learn how to create 
			java applets and incorporate them into a webpage. The applet you will compile 
			and use is the blinking text applet above. This will also get you familiar with 
			whatever java programming environment you choose to use so you can just start 
			on the first programming assignment next week with all these details worked 
			out.
		

			For this lab you should turn in the java applet you designed and a link to a 
			webpage with this applet running. To turn in it, log in to the 
				UCI Electronic Educational Environment, and upload (1) your applet and 
			(2) a link to your webpage.
		

			Getting Accounts
		In order to do this lab, you will need two different accounts: your Windows 
		account and and a UNIX account. The Windows account is the one you will 
		primarily be using for this class. The UNIX account will be important for 
		having your web page and will provide some disk space for you to save files. 
		Instructions for getting your accounts can be found at 
			http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lab/ .
		
			Accessing Files
		The icon labeled youruserid on `octavian'(H:) is your file system on 
		the Suns. All your files on your Sun account can be accessed through your 
		Windows account by clicking on this icon. For the machines in the lab, you can 
		not write to any files on the hard drive (labelled C: ) except 
		for the folder C:\temp . I recommend storing all the files you 
		are working on in your Sun account. However, while you are working on them, 
		move them over to C:\temp .
		

			Save and Compile the Applet Source Code
		Save the source code for the blinking applet using the source code above. 
		Compile the the source code using whatever programming environment you choose 
		to use. Detailed instructions on how to do this using BlueJ are given below. 
		Atfer you have compiled the code, you will have a class called Blink.class 
		.
		
			Making a web page
		
		In order to have a web page that is publicly viewable, it needs to reside in a 
		special directory on your Unix account. You also need to take care to have the 
		protection on the directory and files set so that they can be accessed. For a 
		quick tutorial on some Unix basics, visit 
			http://www.ics.uci.edu/computing/unix , but the following list of 
		commands should be enough for this lab:
		

			Telnet/logon to your Unix accountMake a directory called public_html under 
				the root directory
				

					cdmkdir public_html
					


				Change the mode of the public_html directory to be world-readable and 
				world-executable.
				

					cdchmod 755 public_html
					


				Create a web page. Call it index.html and store it in your public_html 
				directory. Instructions on how to create a web page can be found at 
					http://www.ics.uci.edu/computing/web/personalwebspace.php . You can use 
				the make_my_web 
			program or get more creative on your own.
				Copy your Blink.class file to your public_html directory. You can do 
				this using Windows Explorer. Your Unix files are all stored under the H: 
			drive.Change the mode of the index.html and Blink.class files to 
				be world-readable.
				

					cdcd public_htmlchmod 644 index.htmlchmod 644 Class.class
					


				Edit your index.html file and add lines in html to point to and execute 
				the Blink.class file. Note that you can save the web page you 
				are reading and view it using Notepad to see how this is done. You need the 
				lines inbetween the <hr> 
			commands.Test your Applet by going to the URL 
					http://www.ics.uci.edu/~Your-Login-Name.
			
				Change the java applet we give you in some creative way.  After all, this 
				is your UCI webpage now, so you dont want it to be lame...

			Creating a Project through BlueJ
		

			Java Applets are programs that can be run through a web browser. This section 
			will guide you through two different ways of running an Applet: through a web 
			browser or through BlueJ. In order to run any program or Applet through BlueJ, 
			you have to first create a project and put the appropriate files in the 
			project. This is something that is required by BlueJ, and is its way of 
			organizing files for a particular application.
		

			Start out by opening up BlueJ through the Start menu. ( All 
			the machines in the lab already have BlueJ installed. If you would like to 
			install BlueJ on your own computer visit http://www.bluej.org
			. ) Since we are creating a new project, pull down the Projects 
			menu in BlueJ and choose New Project. Select the location 
			where you want your project to reside and give your project a name. This will 
			create a folder with that name and two additional files in the folder.
		

			To run a Java Applet through a web browser, you will need at least two 
			different files: an html file and at least one file containing the 
			Java bytecode for the applet. The name of the html file will always 
			have the extension .html and the names of the files containing the 
			Java bytecode will always have the extension .class . The .class 
			file is created by compiling Java source code which will be stored in files 
			ending in .java . Copy the Blink.java file into your project 
			folder.
		

			If we want to run the Applet through BlueJ, we need to add the new Java source 
			file to the project. From the Edit menu in BlueJ, select Add Class From 
				File. Select Blink.java and click Add . 
			A box with the name of the applet (Blink) will appear in your window. Click on 
			the Compile button to compile the project. This will produce a 
			file called Blink.class in the project folder which is the Java 
			bytecode for the applet.
		
		To run the applet, right click on the box with Blink applet and select Run 
			Applet . You can run the applet through the applet viewer or the 
		web browser. Experiment with both. For now, select one and click OK 
		. When you run the Applet, BlueJ automatically produces an html file that 
		points to the bytecode file for that applet.
		

			If you right click on the Blink applet and select Open Editor you 
			can edit the java source code. You will need to do this when you develop your 
			own Java programs. Go in and edit the text that is blinking in the applet.
		

			Go back to the folder containing the files for your project. If you 
			double-click on the Blink.html file, your browser will open and 
			display your new applet. If you open the html file with a text editor, you can 
			see and edit the html file. Note the line that points to the Blink.class file. 
			This tells the browser to execute this bytecode.
		


