https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/obama-victory-indian-sc-ruling








Obama victory — Indian SC ruling – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Obama victory — Indian SC ruling    			


I find it very ironic and intriguing that on one hand the whole world is celebrating Obama’s victory as a symbol that people can rise aboive race and make rational and unprejudiced  decision and on the other the Supreme Court in India has to declare that 
“What’s the difference between North Indians and Indians. All of us are Indians,” a Bench of Justices B N Aggrawal and G S Singhvi quipped, while posting for Monday, a PIL seeking judicial inquiry into the killing of a Bihari youth Rahul Raj in a police encounter and the murder of another North Indian in Mumbai last month. 
As pointed out aptly by the justices:
“Can it be done through an order of this court. It is a political question not a court issue. If there is a political will it can be tackled,” a bench of Justices B N Aggrawal and G S Singhvi observed. 
Lets hope that people will learn for Obama example set by USA on Nov. 4, 2008.



By Ramesh |
    				November 6, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		4 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Election Fever
Third World First →



			4 thoughts on “Obama victory — Indian SC ruling”		




Acai Berry November 7, 2008 at 4:16 pm 

All though I feel that it is good to have faith, there are still racial issues with in the US and there always will be.  Racism will never leave this earth because there is just to much hate in this world.








Acai Berry November 19, 2008 at 10:45 pm 

Actually, although I semi agree with acai berry above , I think racism can be one day abolished. Unfortunately, it’s many generations away.








maricopa county public records April 9, 2010 at 7:13 pm 

it is easier said than practiced








dll error April 19, 2010 at 2:00 pm 

Race is going to be a constant problem till we’re all the exact same color.  For some reason people feel like they need to take race into account. It should be a non-issue.  I’m displeased with how the US also caters to races, affirmative action? AKA legalized racism built into the structures of our society.  Totally bogus if you ask me.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


