https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/good-friends








Good Friends – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Good Friends    			


You meet several people in life.  You make several friends — but some of them become stronger friends over time, some remain just ‘friends’ and some phase-out.  In fact, time is the best test of friendship, particularly difficult times.  
Yesterday, we attended 25th wedding anniversary of a couple, Ajay and Juhi Luthra.  We met them about 12-13 years ago and since then our friendship has been slowly and steadily strengtheing.  Since this was a special occassion, I started thinking about them.  I realized how great both of them are as human beings.  They have always been there during difficult times, particularly Juhi for Sudha.  And we did go through interesting times, including multiple weddings on one side to several health crises in my life as well as other person ‘interesting’ periods.  And it Juhi was always there helping Sudha.  Of course, Ajay is one of the nicest guys and the brightest.  
I am lucky to have friends like them.  Here is a photo showing the 25th wedding anniversery for them.
Ajay and Juhi Luthra on their 25th Wedding Anniversary



By Ramesh |
    				November 17, 2008 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← CNN’s Hologram — Immersive Video
Smart Traffic →



			One thought on “Good Friends”		


Pingback: autocarsinsurance.net » Blog Archive » Good Friends 



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


