https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/study-astrology








Study Astrology!!! – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Study Astrology!!!    			


If you want lucrative jobs, study Astrology.  As reported in TOI  :

Hired as vedic consultants, financial astrologers and vaasthu experts both in India and abroad, they’ll be required to make predictions on the stock market, the success of business ventures and offer astro-tips on financial management. Students specialising in financial and vedic astrology are being lapped up by websites looking for such certified professionals, according to university officials. The packages being offered range from Rs 8.5 lakh to Rs 18 lakh per annum.

I wonder whether Mr. Amarnath acted under consultation of an Astrologer and did some
“havans” before joining astrology programs:

Many students, who joined the course unaware of the opportunities, are relieved that they took the leap. “The offer I got from a search engine has proved to be a boon. While I am getting around Rs 4.5 lakh per annum as an engineer, I will be paid Rs 8.5 lakh per year as a vedic consultant,” says Amarnath, who is leaving his job of an engineer in South Central Railway. 

India remains Incredible!!



By Ramesh |
    				November 21, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Obama appoints Sonal Shah
Google’s Speech Interfaces — using context →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


