https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/terrorism-in-india








Terrorism in India – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Terrorism in India    			


India seems to have more than its share of terrorist activities lately.  Many major cities had problems.  The current craziness in Mumbai is very disturbing because it shows two things:  the reach and style of terrorism is continuously changing and (I am sorry to say) India Govt has proved (over the last 2-4 years) that they are totally incompetent in dealing with any emergency situation.
Much has been said about the events.  I only hope that the country of Mahavira, Buddha, and Gandhi will gracefully deal with the fact that religious fanatacism is increasing among Hindus and Muslims rapidly.  Unfortunately, given the current political leaders and their actions, it seems that all wrong actions will be taken.  Very depressing time for we all Indians who want to see India continue on its path to progress.



By Ramesh |
    				November 28, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Social Search
Go To Mumbai! →



			3 thoughts on “Terrorism in India”		


Pingback: current | CNN.com 




Laura December 4, 2008 at 2:17 am 

ItÂ´s really horrible what happened there. Nobody has counted with such an attack. Which motivation do those terrorists have? ItÂ´s the question? Is that an independant terror group? Or maybe directed by a terror network?
Well I hope India will manage it, it would be very sad for that country that has been on the right way.








Antony July 30, 2009 at 1:49 pm 

Yes itÂ´s tru and when i think about it that one month earlier i was there with my friends and it was beautyfull. The Country is very friendly …At this moment we canÂ´t belive that.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


