https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/beijing-trip








Beijing Trip – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Beijing Trip    			


The last 3 days I have been in Beijing to attend SKG2008.  I was requested to give a keynote talk at this conference — Semantics, Knoledge, and Grid — and I talked about the EventWeb ideas.
Though I came here only after about 7 months, this trip showed me a bit more of how rapidly China is transformed.  It does not feel like a developing country — all the facilities and the infrastructure makes it look better than many developed countries.  Of course, people tell me that once you go away from a few top places like Beijing and Shanghai, the story is different.  Even if that is the case, what China has accomplished seems to be unparalleled in the history.  Being Indian, it is natural for me to think about India and I feel very depressed about India.  IN fact I feel worried a bit even about USA, but then USA has amazing creativity and resilience to come back from difficult situation.  Current elections have clearly shown that USA remains as strong and as determined to move forward as ever.
I must say that the building of Chinese Academy of Sciences impressed me a lot — it has very good floor plan conducive to dicussions and creativity.  What I hear in USA is definitely better practiced in many cases in China.  Clearly, there are many other examples of that in China.



By Ramesh |
    				December 7, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← mKrishi
China and India →



			One thought on “Beijing Trip”		




peter December 7, 2008 at 8:15 pm 

Wow , coooool, i like china too.
Chinese is great!







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


