https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/intriguing-observation-about-singapore








Intriguing Observation about Singapore – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Intriguing Observation about Singapore    			


I have visited Singapore many times but never though about this until pointed out today by Dilip and Charu Kokate that one never sees a laborer (whether from India, Malayasia, or any other country) on Orchard Road or any other major pla ces of tourist attraction.  There are significant number of these workers here, but I have never seen any of them at any place except on Sunday afternoon in Little India.  Why does this happen?  This is very intriguing.  I can not think of a reason for this to happen or how could the system control this?



By Ramesh |
    				December 14, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← SigGraph Asia
Planning:  Time or events →



			2 thoughts on “Intriguing Observation about Singapore”		




smitha December 14, 2008 at 11:09 pm 

I don’t think there are any hurdles or barricades per se.
What the bangladeshi and other such construction workers are needed is their local flavor which can be found in Little India, and probably in Geylang where their sexual appetites can be fulfilled at affordable rates rather than expensive Orchard towers.








Richard Krueger December 17, 2008 at 10:01 am 

The reason is simple as far as Little India is concerned, there is a street there with the brothels for guest laborers – which mainly operates on Sunday. As far as Orchard Road is concerned, this is a high class district probably out of the price range (and comfort range) of the people you speak about.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


