https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/diversity-and-india








Diversity and India – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Diversity and India    			


While looking at some photos related to functions in India, I could not help thinking the amount of diversity in the way people appear in India compared to any other country.  In most countries the emphasis seems to be on making everybody look kind of same.  My recent trip to China surprised me because I noticed and talked to some Chinese friends about all people wearing western clothes and most things in major cities looking very ‘western’ and they agreed that there is no effort to maintain traditions in clothings or similar things — except food, I think — in the society there.  Even in US which kind of promotes diversity, things are diverse only within western approaches.  At one time I noted more diversity among Indians or middle-eastern people here, but that is slowly blending and becomig more narrow.
In India, it is common to see both men and women wearing different kinds of traditional clothes ranging from different India styles to western.  At one time western was becoming more common among men and even among women.  But it seems that in the last decade even men have gone back to more traditional Indian clothes and it seems even cultural and religious traditions.  This seems to be a very unique aspect of India — where by maintaining or even going back to traditions — diversity is increasing.



By Ramesh |
    				December 21, 2008 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Cricket in India
Next Generation Search — Course →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


