https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/next-generation-search-course








Next Generation Search — Course – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Next Generation Search — Course    			


In the coming term — the Winter term starting on January 5th 2009 — I am teacing a course on Next Generation Search.  I taught this course earlier, but this time I want to change it and try to identify general principles of search and its applications rather than driving my course more along the direction of what has been happening in the last 10+ years in the area of search engines.
I feel that search is in its very early stages, both in terms of technology and its applications.  ANd this message has to be brought out in this course.  More importantly, it will be great to identify fundamentls of search and how progress is being made in different aspects, including different media, storytelling,  and personalization of search.  I have a feeling that I will learn more than my students in this course.  
And yes, I will share my learnings during this period here with you.



By Ramesh |
    				December 22, 2008 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Diversity and India
USA has become General Motors →



			One thought on “Next Generation Search — Course”		




Harry December 23, 2008 at 9:09 am 

That would be a very interesting course!
The topics I would imagine could include many recent developments in image/video content based search,  large-scale system design, and some applications in social network, visual advertisement, visual shopping, and iPhone, etc. 
We are also interested in the technologies in this area. Looking forward to your course.
Harry
http://visionwang.com







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


