https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/no-text-book-on-search-systems








No Text book on ‘Search Systems’! – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				No Text book on ‘Search Systems’!    			


When I started looking for a book on search systems so I could use it in the first week of my course on ‘Next Generation Search Systems’, I was very surprised that there is absolutely nothing close to a book on search systems.  Is there any that I missed?
Search has become a hot area in computers and is one of the most used area.  Also, arguably, it is one of the fastet growing area.  So it is really surprising that there are numerous books on databases, on information retrieval and even on semantic web, but there seem to be no books on search.  Search brings many of these things together and puts them in the most applicable form for mass applications.  One would think that considering interest in this, there will be many books on this topic, but a search on goodle and on amazon yielded no books.  
Maybe my search approach is wrong.



By Ramesh |
    				January 3, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Entrepreneurship education
Apple becoming more multimedia →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


