https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/apple-becoming-more-multimedia








Apple becoming more multimedia – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Apple becoming more multimedia    			


Apple has contributed a lot to making computing multimedia.  And it continues doing that.
Interesting announcements in this direction at the latest Macworld — the one without Mr Jobs.  The important multimedia things are summarized here:
The new version of iLife will include a feature called Faces that finds and organizes a gallery of a user’s friends in his or her photos, thanks to face-recognition software, Schiller said.
A feature called Places will organize pictures around where they were taken, he added.
This would be accomplished through an interactive world map with GPS geotagging that will pinpoint the location of every photo users take, as long as they have a GPS chip in their camera or iPhone. 
The iPhoto database will recognize the location of snapshot and match it thanks to Google Maps’ technology. 
Apple is also focusing its attention on improving video editing.
“We decided to completely rewrite iMovie and come up with a whole new version,” Schiller said.
“We’ve added so much depth and so much power, we really believe it’s going to be the video-editing product that everybody uses.” 
The new version has better precision editing, video stabilization, easier audio editing and smoother transitions, Schiller said.



By Ramesh |
    				January 6, 2009 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← No Text book on ‘Search Systems’!
Structured and unstructured data (1) →



			One thought on “Apple becoming more multimedia”		




Order Medications Online January 13, 2009 at 1:40 am 

iPhone is a complete (but still, not so perfect) all-in-one mobile phone. But I like SciPhone; much similar to iPhone; only differentiate in some specifications like wi-fi.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


