https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/barack-obama-one-of-the-most-impressive-man








Barack Obama — one of the most impressive man – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Barack Obama — one of the most impressive man    			


I am slowly realizing that Barack Obama is the person who still continues to impress me — it has not stopped yet.  He is truly one of the most amazing person I have seen in my life.  This speech that he gave in Philadelphia early morning today brought tears to my eyes.  He knows what are the issues — the fundamental issues — and how to talk about them. One minor thing — when people clap in his talk — he just raises his voice above the clap level and continues as if he does not want to be disturbed by these minor praises.



By Ramesh |
    				January 17, 2009 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Where Sweatshops are a Dream
Structured and unstructured data (3): Competence and Performance →



			2 thoughts on “Barack Obama — one of the most impressive man”		




susan haynes January 21, 2009 at 2:23 pm 

Hmm.  Interesting that two intelligent people (that would be you and me, Ramesh) can listen to exactly the same speech and have nearly opposite reactions! Me, my reaction was “same old, same old”.








Comcast Internet Deals January 26, 2009 at 7:41 pm 

Change is supposed to be a good thing.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


