https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/new-ilife-and-face-recognition








New iLife and face recognition – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				New iLife and face recognition    			


Apple’s new iLife has been receiving lots of attention, particularly their iPhoto that has many new features.  I don;t have this so I am relying currently only on the media to inform me — intend to get it sometime soon — maybe in February.  There is very nice write-up on this bt Walt Mossberg of WSJ.  Mossberg definitely likes the system but can not help being a bit down on much touted face recognition:
But, in my opinion, the new face-recognition system isn’t up to Apple’s self-proclaimed high standards, and isn’t reliable enough to justify an upgrade all by itself.
Face recognition has been a problem for many such systems who claimed that they can do it or will do it.  Just a couple years ago Riya.com started with many strong claims about the role of faces and how they will revolutionize photo search on web by developing strong face recogntion technology.  They won lots of funding, but ended up becoming Like.com where they only search of objects in catalogs.
Face reognition is a difficult problem — yes it is an understatement.  In my opinion, unless one uses lots of context and metadata, along with solid image understanding technology, face recognition will not be impressive.  Most face recognition systems are designed to use strong image understanding but very little context and metadata.  Hopefully this will change sometime soon.  Because for most humans, other humans are the most important objects.  Face recognition is the most important ability that humans are trained from early childhood.  It is only natural to think that in photo organization, face recognition may play a very key role.



By Ramesh |
    				January 28, 2009 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Obama’s popularity
Unplanned Expansion of IITs →



			One thought on “New iLife and face recognition”		




Fris Arvz February 3, 2009 at 11:57 pm 

http://www.podtech.net/home/3802/apples-new-imacs-and-ilife
Here is video link about Apple iLife. Enjoy!







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


