https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/the-white-tiger








The White Tiger – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				The White Tiger    			


I just finished reading the Booker Prize winning book by Aravind Adiga — The White Tiger.
Many patriotic Indian people may be offended by this novel and Amitabh Bachchan may be offended enough to do a blog protesting this book.  This book also exposes the underbelly of Indian politics, caste system, and life of poor.  Mr Adiga has been quite bold in his characterizations.  I don;t know how accurate he is, but based on what I hear and observe during my trips to India, and what I remember from my life there, he has done an excellent job in characterizing it.  A sample of that is:
..the finance minister declared that this year’s budget will include special incentives to turn our villages into high-technology aradises ..
This is the kind of news they feed us on All India Radio, night after night: and tomorrow at dawn it’ll be in the papers too.  People just swallow this crap.  Nigh after night, morning after morning,  Amazing, isn’t it?
One thing about many of us from India, we become patriotic defensives tooo soon.  We forget that until we realize what are the problems we face, we can not solve them.  Identification and acceptance of a problem is the first step in its correction.  By becoming defensive (stupid) patriots, we make sure that we reamin in the denial stage and don’t even think of solving a problem.
In any case, Aravida Adiga has definitely written an engrossing book that does show the underbelly of Indian system — that shows the darkside.  Such books need to be taken seriously.



By Ramesh |
    				February 1, 2009 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Unplanned Expansion of IITs
Explore Ocean Floor using Google Maps →



			One thought on “The White Tiger”		




ahmet March 10, 2009 at 1:43 pm 

USA knows well that protectionism is detrimental to its future. In fact USA has been the most open county and has become what it is because of its open policy.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


