https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/explore-ocean-floor-using-google-maps








Explore Ocean Floor using Google Maps – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Explore Ocean Floor using Google Maps    			


WSJ reports:
The new version of Google Earth, which can be downloaded at earth.google.com, allows users to dive along reefs, explore the sea floor and view videos and images of sea creatures. It also includes details like advice on the best surf sports and logs of real ocean expeditions.
It is possible to explore theme parks and other important land marks using Google Earth.  More interestingly, however, 
The new version of Google Earth also allows users to look at imagery from a particular location over time. At Monday’s event, former Vice President Al Gore demonstrated how that feature could be used to show the impact of climate change.
Impressive. 



By Ramesh |
    				February 3, 2009 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← The White Tiger
Grand Challenge Problems at ACM Multimedia 2009 →



			One thought on “Explore Ocean Floor using Google Maps”		




Search Engine Optimization Philadelphia February 17, 2009 at 12:30 am 

Thanks for sharing this information. I want to ask if this feature has been helpful in demonstrating climate changes, then can it be equally useful in marketing process. There are many companies, which have grown gradually through step by step development. So is this feature can be used as a substitute of article submission or keyword marketing in the form of live demonstration of images and videos. I think it will prove to be a fantastic idea for tourism industry at least as they can charm more tourists by giving them in depth glance of their landscapes. Simultaneously corporate industries too can mark their presence in that particular arena and can depict how they ascended with passage of time along with development of their stations.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


