https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/grand-challenge-problems-at-acm-multimedia-2009








Grand Challenge Problems at ACM Multimedia 2009 – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Grand Challenge Problems at ACM Multimedia 2009    			


ACM Multimedia 2009 is starting a very innovative session:  Grand Challenge Problems sponsored by Industry.  See the announcement.
This is truly a very good idea and I am proud to see that ACM Multimedia has started this.



By Ramesh |
    				February 3, 2009 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Explore Ocean Floor using Google Maps
Getting funding for startups getting tougher →



			2 thoughts on “Grand Challenge Problems at ACM Multimedia 2009”		




Christian Timmerer February 4, 2009 at 2:29 am 

I would agree on this statement, very innovative and I’m also happy looking forward to the results. However, I hope that some more challenges are coming soon as, for example, for multimedia communication I don’t see video conferencing as the main/only issue. This may be the result that only some companies have used this opportunity while others have been excluded??? *very provocative written* 😉 … or simply are not aware of that … or ignoring it.








Mor February 4, 2009 at 2:50 pm 

Hi Christian (and Ramesh!),
Everybody is invited to join – the current set of companies are a some of the of companies we approached, and some of them had approached us. In any case, it’s not too late for companies to pose their own challenges.
Unfortunately, even if we have 20 or 2000 additional companies, I still do not think we’ll cover all of the world’s Multimedia problems 🙂







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


