https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/getting-funding-for-startups-getting-tougher








Getting funding for startups getting tougher – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Getting funding for startups getting tougher    			


In these days of financial difficulties all around, no wonder that one hears stories all around that getting funding for starting a technical startup is getting more difficult.  First we heard os VC cuts.  Now NYT reports on Angel Investors pulling back sharply.



By Ramesh |
    				February 4, 2009 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		4 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Grand Challenge Problems at ACM Multimedia 2009
Uncertainty in Databases →



			4 thoughts on “Getting funding for startups getting tougher”		




Tz4Bu February 7, 2009 at 2:06 am 

this financial diffictulties are in romania too








Mark February 11, 2009 at 9:50 am 

In the near term it is hard to see these problems getting any better. I think some business angels will be missed, but some will not. We are paying the price for short-termism at the moment and to avoid these problems again we need people who invest to build strong businesses. The current fast buck VC model is not that. I say good riddance!








Ramesh  Post authorFebruary 12, 2009 at 11:55 pm 

This is true — in difficult times, strong models survive.
I guess this is right time to pay our respect to Darwin for survival of the fittest.








Mark February 17, 2009 at 9:26 am 

Ramesh,
hehe… nice segway to Darwin. I am not sure if we should base economic models on ‘nature, red in tooth and claw’, but I do know what you mean. You may be interested in this post reflecting the conditions in the South African VC/investment market. http://www.vinnylingham.com/silicon-cape.html







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


