https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/uncertainty-in-databases








Uncertainty in Databases – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Uncertainty in Databases    			


While attending a talk on uncertainty in databases, it became clear to me that the approach that is being adopted to deal with uncertainty in databases is very different than what I have seen in other areas.  
I could not help but think — not sure of this yet — that one goal is not to significantly change the current structure of relational model and yet deal with uncertainty.  This is going to become challenging because uncertainty is an ‘attribute’ of data that is processed and chaged with different operations on data.  With current set theoretic model of relational algebra, can one bring in partial membership (what fuzzy set theory people tried to do) in a set?  That may create problems in standard operations like joins in databases.  That will also start creating problems in selecting appropriate records from the data bases in response to queries.
SO it is really an interesting issue whether one can easily bring in the notion of uncertainty in relational databases.
A related thought that comes to mind is that uncertainty is a mechanism to relate relae world to its model.  Databases abstract out the real world first by selecting appropriate modeling in using the datamodel and then making sure that this data is entered by means, including humans, that remove uncertainty.  All database operations were designed under this assumption.  Now if we start changing this and start accepting data from the real world directly in the RDB, then it is natural that many difficult challenges will arise.
This may become more interesting and applicable area.



By Ramesh |
    				February 6, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Getting funding for startups getting tougher
All those LifeLogs and Mobile Phones →



			One thought on “Uncertainty in Databases”		




Tz4Bu February 7, 2009 at 2:02 am 

it is true !
regards from romania







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


