https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/all-those-lifelogs-and-mobile-phones








All those LifeLogs and Mobile Phones – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				All those LifeLogs and Mobile Phones    			


There was a time when many projects started worldwide to build one or other form of eChronicle, Lifelog, MyLifeBits or something like that.  All these projects were to capture semi-objectively a multimedia extended diary of a person’s life.  Of course, as with any such project, issues were raised about privacy issues.  I am sure there will be mechanisms will have to be implemented to deal
with privacy issues.  But I would worry about those only if the concept gains any kind of momentum.
After the initial excitement, it appears (and I hope I am wrong — so please feel free to correct me) that the interest in these systems has somehow gone down.  I find this strange because technology has progressed rapidly to make this idea easily possible.  Different sensors are being integrated in mobile phones and there is enough computing power has become available on these devices to store enough information and do lots of exciting things with it.  And the bandwidth is increasing.
One would think that there will be enough interest in devices/systems that could store, hopefully non-intrusively and automatically, our experiences so we can analyze and re-experience those.  If there were a device available, I would definitely want to use it.  I believe that this could be a very interesting application — one that will be really useful.



By Ramesh |
    				February 8, 2009 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Uncertainty in Databases
A Great Opportunity: Mobile Phones in Rural India →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


