https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/google-maps-and-latitude








Google:  Maps and Latitude – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Google:  Maps and Latitude    			


Google Latitude may be again a major introduction in mobile networking space that may result in many new applications like Google Maps did.  Google maps made maps a common utility that could be used in the ‘background’ (an active one) to develop lots of applications by combining your data with it.  By providing easy access and no cost use, it encouraged people to use it and get addicted to it.
Google is doing that now with its Latitude.  This application will allow people to use location of others (and their) to create even more intiguing applications on top of Maps.  This application allows bridging of real physical world with the maps at any given time.  And we all know that this has many interesting (and privacy challenging) applications possible.  Moreover, by adding memory to this, even more applications could be developed.
I am eager to see what kind of applications are going to appear first.  And what is going to happen to many start-up companies that were thinking of dominating mobile social networking space.



By Ramesh |
    				February 10, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← A Great Opportunity: Mobile Phones in Rural India
Protectionism in difficult time →



			2 thoughts on “Google:  Maps and Latitude”		




Daniel Tetreault February 25, 2009 at 12:39 pm 

Hey Thanks, Rash. I had no idea that this Google Latitude even existed or was being developed. 
This aplication looks very promising if used in the social networking realms; I could really see it taking off in terms of usage and popularity too. 
Daniel.








Eujenio de la Garcia July 10, 2009 at 5:37 am 

There is so much going on in the social networking world. I myself haven’t heard about Latitude but it looks like a pretty innovative idea.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


