https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/five-year-check-up








Five Year Check-up – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Five Year Check-up    			


Yesterday I had endoscopy of my Gastro-esophageal area (of stomach and esophagus).  Third time in about five years.
About 5 years ago, I underwent a similar inspection that revealed that I had cancer at the junction of my esophagus and stomach.  Exactly 3 days less than 5 years ago, my chemo started to cure the cancer.  After strong chemo and radiation, I had surgery to remove part of my stomach and part of esophagus.  
It was a really good news that after about 5 years, the cancer has no signs in that part of my body.  So I may have many other problems, but I don’t have cancer.  Good News.
At least four different senior doctors have told me that I am one of the luckiest person alive.  The mortality rate for the caner that I had is very high.  Moreover, who survive have too many complications in their system and do not live normal life.  In my case, it is not completely normal, but it is such that most people will not notice that I have any health problem because I do not have any serious side effects.  I am very thankful to the doctors who treated me and to enormous support of family and friends.  I owe a lot to many doctors, including Dr. Major Reid who suspected and pushed me to the tests that diagnosed the cancer in early stage, to Drs Brunson and Miller who treated me well and helped me recover.  Sudha and rest of my family here was simply amazing support through all the treatment.  And the support of all the friends, particularly Sirish Jani who helped me in treatment also, was overwhelming.  In fact I started writing blog just to inform my concerned friends about my health situation and that habit has continued even now.
I am so happy to be writing the blog about 5 years after I started.  I started with the news that I have the cancer and starting the treatment.  Now I am happy to share with my friends that I have crossed the important Five-Year cut-off point and I am without cancer.  
Once again, THANKS Folks for making life so interesting and enjoyable.



By Ramesh |
    				February 13, 2009 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← MMGC:  Multimedia Grand Challenge
To Do or To Have?   That is the question →



			One thought on “Five Year Check-up”		




Suzi February 16, 2009 at 11:35 am 

We’re glad you’re still around Dad 🙂







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


