https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/to-do-or-to-have-that-is-the-question








To Do or To Have?   That is the question – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				To Do or To Have?   That is the question    			


I came across a research article with the title: To Do or To Have?   That is the question.
This research was done at University of Colorado at Boulder and at Cornell University.  The basic finding of the research, completed about 5 years ago, is that people prefer experiences over material possession.  The happiness derived from experiences stay with them longer than the happiness from the material possessions.
This definitely has serious implications for marketing people and books have been written on that topic.  More interestingly, however, this has implications for researchers and entrenreneurs.  In modern days, one collects all kind of experiences using different devices.  There are only few services, however, that help you manage, revisit, and remix experiences.  Researchers should look into these issues and entrepreneurs may benefit by developing products in such spaces and then using innovative revenue models for letting people remix and share their experiences.



By Ramesh |
    				February 19, 2009 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Five Year Check-up
Venture Funding for University Research →



			One thought on “To Do or To Have?   That is the question”		




Mark February 27, 2009 at 1:39 am 

I have come across this while looking at the market for services aimed at the very wealthy. What has emerged there is fractional ownership services. People prefer to share several jets, yachts, super-cars rather than just acquire one product/marque. The motivation is exactly what you mentioned: they prefer the experiences they enjoy, to just acquiring ownership of something. As western economies get even wealthier (note the assumption!) this will trickle down to the mainstream and new services will emerge.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


