https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/1077








Venture Funding for University Research – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Venture Funding for University Research    			


Many Venture Capitalist companies have been formed to work with universities to license research results or products from university research laboratories.  I had a chance to interact with multiple of those.  Most of them had difficulties because many universities really don’t understand entrepreneurship.  Their intellectual property offices think more like lawyers than business people.  If universities want to be successful in benefitting (though — whether they should be doing that is a different topic) from their research, then they should recruit entrepreneurs to work in their technology transfer office.
In any case, there is an article of interest in Forbes on this topic.  They mention a company that has been successful in this difficult area:

In funding the commercialization of academic research, Allied Minds has an ample assortment of targets, given the paucity of bank credit and the preference of VC firms for big, quick investments. But it’s a territory littered with failures. Two and a half decades ago University Patents was a glamorous pioneer in this business, with a share price of $24.50. All that’s left is a moneylosing firm called Competitive Technologies (amex: CTT – news – people ), which sells for 95 cents a share and is at distinct risk of being delisted from the New York Stock Exchange.




By Ramesh |
    				February 27, 2009 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← To Do or To Have?   That is the question
Slumdog →



			One thought on “Venture Funding for University Research”		


Pingback: Articles about Entrepreneurs as of February 28, 2009 | The Lessnau Lounge 



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


