https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/search-inside








Search Inside – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Search Inside    			


Search became a popular term with the rise of the Web.  Before that search was a major component of database systems, also called information systems in some circles, and not so popular that time information retrieval systems.  In these systems search was ‘inside’.  Yes, search was the reason these systems existed, but it was considered a user-facing component.  The systems could be used by other systems and be part of larger systems.
Search is an important activity in many, if not most, of our problem solving tasks.  Even when we are doing arithmetic operations, search is a basic step in our table look-up to find the result (or should I say semantics) of the operator given the operands.  In general, however, we focus on problem solving or some other task, rather than on the search task.  So why did people consider search so important when Web came in?  Well that’s because when there is so much information, search will take lots of time when done manually.  So the term ‘search engines’ became a popular term.
Now that we have search engines that make it easy for us to do search, we want to put it back (where it belongs!) at the back-end.  We want to search to become as effortless as in multiplication tables while doing arithmetic.  We want to build complex tasks built on this philosophy.  I see increasingly this trend coming in — in many applications.  Whether it is in travel sites, or in real-estate sites or now in a new interesting site called cruxlux (http://www.cruxlux.com/). 



By Ramesh |
    				March 15, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← British Grand Challenges
FaceWeb →



			2 thoughts on “Search Inside”		




Shaun G March 16, 2009 at 9:08 pm 

Search is everything now, I find now myself Googling  for a website that I know the url too! Google has set out to be a driving force in how we communicate. They’ve just started a program called Google Voice, Soon we can search the text of our voicemails!








solar power March 18, 2009 at 3:10 am 

That was such an interesting entry , I am going to post a link to it on my own blog. Thank You.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


