https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/mm-grand-challenges








MM Grand Challenges – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				MM Grand Challenges    			


Two more MM Grand challenges have been included in ACM MM conference.  Bothe these are related to new things happening — one is related to social media and the other is related to defining events and tracking them in unstructured video.  Both are challenging and interesting topics.
On one hand, I am very happy that academic community is identifying such challenges and trying to rally researchers around those.  On the other hand, I am wondering about the strategy to select Grand Challenges and encourage community to work on them followed this year.  By selecting so many Grand Challenges for such a small community — no challenge really remains a Grand Challenge.  These Grand Challenges have mostly become research projects sponsored by special groups, particularly industry, who could get some ideas and research done without spending there resources.  In many cases, these challenges are not even articulated with well defined goals.
In many cases one has good intentions to define and develop a focused approach, but pressures from different groups end up pulling and pushing it so much that in place of a focused approach one ends up adopting a shot-gun approach.  It appears that that is what happened to MM Grand Challenge 2009 — in place of a Grand Challenge, I see total 10 challenges listed.  And I know that researchers in my own group are struggling to decide which one they want to participate in.  And I am afraid that in place of working on a grand challenge, they are wasting their time analyzing and reanlyzing these challenges to decide which one they should work.
I hope that MM Grand Challenge for ACM MM 2010 will have just one GRAND CHALLENGE.



By Ramesh |
    				March 18, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← FaceWeb
Multimedia Text Book →



			2 thoughts on “MM Grand Challenges”		




David Ayman Shamma March 19, 2009 at 12:27 am 

Ramesh, this is a really good point but I have to ask:
One?  There are like 4 tracks at ACM MM:  Content, Systems, Applications, and Interactive Arts.  How could one challenge give everyone something to chew on?  Unless that one challenge was faceted well enough to suit.   And if that is the case, are we all really working on the same problem?
-a.








Ramesh  Post authorMarch 24, 2009 at 12:06 am 

Interestingly, David, none of the grand challenges seems to be directly tied to a track — they do have strong flavors.  Most of them are biased towards content.
Even if we want to have grand challenges related to track — then lets call them that and have one for each track.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


