https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/semantics-comes-to-google-search








Semantics comes to Google Search – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Semantics comes to Google Search    			


It is very encouraging to see 
Google executives have acknowledged that semantic search technology will be an important component of search engines in the future. “Right now, Google is really good with keywords and that’s a limitation we think the search engine should be able to overcome with time,” says Google’s Marissa Mayer. “People should be able to ask questions and we should understand their meaning, or they should be able to talk about things at a conceptual level.” Mayer says semantic search technology will not replace traditional keyword searches, but instead will be part of an algorithmic mix. “I think the best algorithm for search is a mix of both brute-force computation and sheer comprehensiveness and also the qualitative human component,” she says.
This is definitely a right step for Google, but more than that for Search field.



By Ramesh |
    				March 25, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Multimedia Text Book
3D TV — a new version →



			3 thoughts on “Semantics comes to Google Search”		




Okinawa March 26, 2009 at 1:15 am 

The scary part about evolving search technology is that is seems like Google is building one giant brain.








Sujeet March 27, 2009 at 8:36 am 

It should be interesting to see how SEO’s deal with this latest development from Google..








Content Writing Services April 22, 2009 at 10:09 pm 

I guess  search engines will really benefit from this.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


