https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/smell-comes-to-operas








Smell comes to operas – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Smell comes to operas    			


A new concept of Scent Opera is going to be introduce soon.  See WSJ report.
a “scent opera,” a new performance art that pairs music with a carefully orchestrated sequence of smells, some pleasant and some real stinkers. The opera, titled “Green Aria,” will test the boundaries of scent art when it opens at the Guggenheim Museum in New York May 31.
Earlier experiments were done in user interfaces where scent was used at computer terminas — those were not very successful because it is easy to create smell, but difficult to get rid of it so a new smell could be created.
In any case, this is interesting direction.  Sooner or later, it is going to be a common experiential component.



By Ramesh |
    				May 20, 2009 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		4 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Visual Computing Institute
Real Time Search →



			4 thoughts on “Smell comes to operas”		




priya May 21, 2009 at 1:51 am 

I remember around five-six years back, there was a Tamil movie released which had scent as an added feature. If there was a scene in a rose garden, the cinema hall would be filled with the smell of roses, and so on.
they used dry ice for those smells.
due to the experimental nature of this movie, and of the cost and technical support needed, it was released only in a few theaters in chennai, I think.
i’m however not able to find details about it on the Net, causing me to doubt my memory.. whether such a movie was actually released or it was an april fool’s joke.








Suzi May 21, 2009 at 9:16 am 

Not smell but I remember a great movie I think at Universal Studios where you could feel the mice running across your feet.








Christian Timmerer May 25, 2009 at 9:24 am 

We’re currently standardizing descriptors for this kind of information as part of MPEG-V Sensory Information. More information about this can be found at http://multimediacommunication.blogspot.com/search/label/mpeg-v or you may even contact me directly as I’m the editor of this part.








college paper writer May 26, 2009 at 12:34 am 

I just wish the performance in New York won’t be the last. I hope to experience scent opera as well. I have been a fan of operas since I was a kid. I vividly remember my first time in the theater. The featured soprano was very impressive and gave a wonderful performance. With scent opera, I hope to rekindle the same magic again.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


