https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/real-time-search








Real Time Search – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Real Time Search    			


Twitter has made Real Time Search a new field.  First it was associated with what people called ‘ambient awareness’ and now this microblogging site has been called a real time search engine.  Of course, the  popularity of microblogging started with the rise of Twitter and is now a popular concept.  Even those who don’t yet see (like I did not see it for quite some time) the utility of microblogging and associated infrastructure are sure to start seeing this soon.
Even Google seems to be worried about this real time search business.  See this piece.
For researchers in this and related area, the approaches adopted in Twitter are unique and of some interesting long-term concepts.  How do you create an index of ‘live’ data — currently microblogs — with latency measured today in seconds is something that was not considered a possibility.  Now that we see that this is possible, this is going to open up many new application areas.
I find it particularly interesting because it is a concrete example of events being created by people.  These events could be considered atomic events.  One could start using various tools to link these and start creating an EventWeb and this EventWeb could give some interesting analytics and insights in what is going on in a particular geographic area, or in a partical intellectual area, or with a particular person/organization.  Very interesting.
How far is the ‘sensor-based blogging’ once this infrastructure is well understood?  I don;t think too far.



By Ramesh |
    				May 22, 2009 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Smell comes to operas
Reverse Search is just Search →



			3 thoughts on “Real Time Search”		




Mike May 23, 2009 at 9:20 pm 

Very interesting and true. Twitter is crazy popular. I really didn’t think for a minute that this application would attract this many people. I guess it could be targeted as a tool for information per geographical area. That would be interesting for a company to base it marketing efforts per region of what Twitter users are doing or saying. In internet marketing, I get at least 1 email a day with someone selling an ebook on the power of marketing on Twitter.








Derek McCrea September 29, 2009 at 10:34 am 

Twitter is a little too personal for me.








Tom Aikins February 22, 2010 at 4:38 pm 

Twitter is still something of a mystery to me. I can’t quite figure out to use it effectively.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


