https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/personal-butler-on-iphone-siri








Personal Butler on iPhone: Siri – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Personal Butler on iPhone: Siri    			


There is a new assistant announced for iPhone.  According to this article
Siri deals with the hassle of accessing multiple sites to explore options, make choices, get reservations and buy tickets. It saves your favorites, keeps track of your bookings, and helps you remember what you liked about a place or event. It helps you invite your friends to things you arrange with Siri. It does things that a personal assistant would do for you using the Internet.
This system knows about you and can interact with you to find what you want to get and then go to Internet and get you that information effortlessly.  Clearly this is the way we will get information in future, but I did not realize that future is already here.
I was (like many other people) involved in developing a product like this (we called it Ramu a popular butler name in India) about 7 years ago.  I guess it was before its time and of course that tiem we did not even think about speech interface.
It is very heartening to see such exciting applications being developed.



By Ramesh |
    				June 3, 2009 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Prospective of Multimedia Search
Real Time Search 2 →



			One thought on “Personal Butler on iPhone: Siri”		




Suzi June 4, 2009 at 9:20 am 

Sounds really cool!







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


