https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/dave-lehman








Dave Lehman – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Dave Lehman    			


In the passage of your life, you meet some people who make a lasting impression on you and you want them to be always part of your life.  Dave Lehman was one such individual.  A very creative and entrepreneurial individual, full of ideas and optimism, with a strong ‘can do’ attitude.  He was a person who was equally at home at IBM or Kodak as well as at Praja.  Though I got a distinct feel that he liked start-up environment better than a big corporation.
He had a long bout with cancer.  Cancer of many kinds, ranging from simple skin to liver.  Finally in the company of all his family members he closed his eyes for the last time a few days ago at his residence in Florida.
I will miss yourr counsel, friendly telephone calls, and warm concerns about our family, Dave.  I am happy that you had a very rich and rewarding life.  But I will miss you.



By Ramesh |
    				June 10, 2009 |
    				             		Personal, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Real Time Search 4: Driving using only the rear view mirror
Search: Progress in NE extraction →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


