https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/geotagging-is-moving-closer-to-center








Geotagging is moving closer to center – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Geotagging is moving closer to center    			


In organizing photos, grotagging is slowly moving towards center — it is becoming a key organizing mechanism for organizing photos.  I recently bought a real serious camera with built in GPS — the Nikon Coolpix P6000 — and it is well known that most phone cameras soon will have geotags — latitude and logitudes — available.  Since time was already available on photos, this makes photos relate to ‘events’ very easy.  Combine this with inverse mapping feature — ‘What’s here?’ — of Google maps and you now have a potent mechanism to organize your photos.
Flickr mobile uses geortagging to show you pictures taken at newby places — a real nice feature for many tourists.



By Ramesh |
    				June 20, 2009 |
    				             		Experiential Computing, General Updates |
             	 
    				             		10 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← “What’s here?” on Google Maps
Ubiquitous Connectivity →



			10 thoughts on “Geotagging is moving closer to center”		


Pingback: XkiD | Geotagging is moving closer to center | blog.xkid.ro 




Graphic Design India July 7, 2009 at 2:35 am 

Well this is really awesome!!Great feature…Geotagging certainly takes photo capturing to another level.As geotagging enables us to  relate to events..we do not have to stress ourselves to remember the events now.Another example of technology making our life simpler.








Noel July 26, 2009 at 5:16 am 

Yes, its a real nice feature for many Tourists! Its great and it works, but on big Places. In New York are many Photos Online but in a smallt Town not.








stretch marks January 8, 2010 at 9:37 pm 

Its  good, this camera can be proved useful for tourist,features of this camera is amazing.








Teeth Whitening January 27, 2010 at 12:07 am 

Even I think that organizing photos in this manner is a nice way, but ist this technique cheap or ll burn out mah pocket…lol








Jessicca Alba February 3, 2010 at 12:32 am 

this is the best feature i have seeen in the cameras that the pics itself says about the moments.






Pingback: backlink 1000 .edu blogs | Captain Warez - Rapidshare Hotfile Megaupload Sharecash Files Download Blog 




Frugal Living December 24, 2010 at 4:53 am 

hi. how much cost of this camera because i also want to buy it..








Ivan Nikolov June 6, 2012 at 6:42 am 

The price for this camera is between 500 – 600 euro in Bulgaria and Turkey.








Kundalini Yoga October 14, 2012 at 10:49 pm 

Technologies on GPS is very sophisticated and useful to the community including the mine. In my opinion, the presence of GPS technology, we can be much easier to find the path that we are looking for typewriting we are traveling.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


