https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/eventweb-getting-traction








EventWeb getting traction – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				EventWeb getting traction    			


This Thursday I gave a distinguished speaker talk at NTU in Singapore.  I was pleasantly surprised by the attendance and the fact that I forgot to keep track of time and exceeded my time by 30 minutes — yes 30 minutes.  And people were polite enough not to remind me about that — and since only one person left, I did not check time.
But the real important thing is that after that I received quite a few e-mails asking questions and wanting to collaborate on the topic.  Very intriguing.  Is it NTU or is it that the time for the EventWeb has come.  I am definitely puzzled about it.



By Ramesh |
    				August 8, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Multimedia Information Retrieval at NUS – 2
Where is Computer Science in it? →



			One thought on “EventWeb getting traction”		




web development services August 14, 2009 at 12:01 am 

I think it is a mixture of both.Your first para actually denotes a lot of things.Firstly your popularity.Then your ability to hold your audience’s attention and of course your interest in the entire thing.It was good to learn that you got a good response after the NTU session.All the best with your future speeches.Thanks.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


