https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/photo-management-remains-an-open-problem








Photo Management remains an open problem – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Photo Management remains an open problem    			


When I got a new Mac and with it the latest photo management system iPhoto from them, I thought that this will convince me that photo management is a nearly solved problem.  Boy, was I wrong in thinking that!!!  Far from it — apart from some ‘apple experience’ I am disappointed in the system.  It has a long way to go to help people.  It appears that most phot systems feel that if they can do nice slide show and help publish photos in different forms, their job is done.  These systems ignore that now people literally shoot anything that they find mildly interesting.  SO one has to adopt a philosophy that will help people filter and organize photos.
I am convinced that personal photo management remains an open problem.  And that there is need for this system — this is not a Vitamin, it is a Pain-Killer.



By Ramesh |
    				August 20, 2009 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Situation Awareness and Control
Trip to Angkor in Cambodia:1 →



			2 thoughts on “Photo Management remains an open problem”		




web development August 20, 2009 at 11:28 pm 

Hey thanks for making me aware.I for one loves photography.I am disappointed too with the news.Will have to keep waiting for some more time.Would love to hear from you if you come across any such device that will solve the problem…partially will also do.






Pingback: Photo management is an open problem at Lifeblob’s World 



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


