https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/ict-for-development-is-dominated-by-social-network-thinking








ICT for development is dominated by Social Network thinking – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				ICT for development is dominated by Social Network thinking    			


IEEE Conference on Technologies for Humanitarian Challenges was an enjoyable conference.  I debated before coming here just for this conference, but after a busy full day, I am happy I did.  It was very enjoyable and stimulating experience.  It was nice to see how many different projects are going on and several of them look good.
It was very intriguing, however, that most people are thinking of using social network flavor for implementing mobile based applications to improve all aspects of rural life.  I do believe that this is an exciting direction.  As usual, direct applications of current social network technology will be of limited use.  What is required is to adapt current technologies for fitting the unique needs of rural life.
I must say that I have been thinking about something that I have tentatively started calling Knowledge and Innovation Sharing Networks (KIS Networks) by taking best features of old B2B, current social networks, microblogging, and wiki technologies.  More on those sometime soon.



By Ramesh |
    				August 28, 2009 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Sentiment analysis
Bengaluru trip →



			One thought on “ICT for development is dominated by Social Network thinking”		




website design company September 1, 2009 at 8:56 pm 

Thanks for sharing your experience at the conference.Social networking is the recent trend.Everyone is using it to promote their stuffs and for other purposes too.It was nice to read about your  Knowledge and Innovation Sharing Networks.Hope to read more about it soon.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


