https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/begaluru-trip








Bengaluru trip – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Bengaluru trip    			


For 2-3 years, 2005-2005,  I used to be in Bangalore every 2-3 months.  That was more than 2 years ago.  Since then, Bangalore has become Bengaluru.  I am still trying to decide whether I like Bengalure more or Bangalore.  
Bangalore had a terrible airport; Bengaluru has much better airport — a modern one.  Unlike the old one, I don;t mind spending some time waiting for my flights here.  It has good seats, good restaurants, and free wireless if you send sms.  The road from the airport to the city is a good one — from Indian standard — very good one.
There is still lots of construction going on — the metro is progressing, as usual very slow.
One thing that I did not like is that Bengaluru hs more use of local language and at many places there are no signs even in English.  I don;t understand this.  When many countries are adopting Roman script to write their language for ease for every body, it seems that politicians here are taking things backwards.  I don’t understand this because Bangalore was becoming a world city.  Does Bengaluru has the same aspiration or they have already passed their golden age.
Another minor – but important – point is that it seems that even the airport is designed for today or at most for the next few years.  If Bangalore kept progressing then this will become too small soon.  But then maybe that’s the plan that Bengaluru has — not grow but stop the growth.
So I did not have much time to see more — was a short and busy trip — but what I saw made me quite nostalgic.



By Ramesh |
    				August 29, 2009 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← ICT for development is dominated by Social Network thinking
Knowledge and Innovation Sharing Networks (KISN) →



			One thought on “Bengaluru trip”		




website design company September 1, 2009 at 6:01 am 

I am likely to visit Bengaluru this October during my vacations.Language is a matter of concern in the Southern part of India.Bangalore has progressed a lot in the past few years.Hope to have a good time when i visit this year.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


