https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/back-after-a-long-break








Back after a long break – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Back after a long break    			


I am coming back after a long break — the longest since I started writing my blog.  First, I was quite busy and then I was traveling in China where things were hectic and access to Internet (due to travels, being with family, and some professional things) was not as good.  In any case, this has been a period of intense activities.
China trip was very interesting and illuminating.  There are good reasons why China is emerging so rapidly as a world leader.  It is always an experience to visit there — this time it was particularly more because I spend lot of time as a tourist.  I will start sharing some of my experiences on this topic as soon as I get back home — USA — in 2 days.
This was also the longest trip for me away from home.  I started missing home some time ago.  But remaining part of this year is going to be lots of travel — so I will not be much at home.  



By Ramesh |
    				September 23, 2009 |
    				             		Personal |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Knowledge and Innovation Sharing Networks (KISN)
Computer Vision Applications →



			One thought on “Back after a long break”		




Competitions October 5, 2009 at 4:16 am 

Welcome back ! ;-]







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


