https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/computer-vision-applications








Computer Vision Applications – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Computer Vision Applications    			


Computer Vision has been a field that had enormous potential in many applications ranging from robotics to human interfaces over the last 25 years or so.  Unfortunately other fields have become lot more applicable, but computer vision still remains a strong potential technology that could revolutionize applications of computing.
Many companies have been formed to reap this potential.
It is clear that some day this technology will cross the application barrier.  Many early hurdles — sensors, processing power, software — have been solved.  But we still don;t know how to apply this technology effectively.
There is a great buzz around
http://www.vitamindinc.com/
currently.  Most computer vision researchers will recognize that the technology is nothing new.  What is new is however is the application environment put around simple computer vision technology.  Can this be extended beyond the first set of ‘claimed’ applications?  Only time will tell.  In my recent memory, the same amount — possibly even more — buzz was created by riya.com, only to become like.com with with relatively modest ambition and almost neglegible use of comuter vision technology.
As a long term researcher in this very exciting field, I do hope that this or some other company will bring computer vision to the center stage in computing.  I doubt, however, that that could be done without strong use of context in computer vision system.  That will require a change in the mind frame of researchers and technologists.  And I do see some signs — in image and video retrieval systems particularly.  So I am hoping that This Vitamin will really be a vitamin for computer vision.



By Ramesh |
    				September 24, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		4 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Back after a long break
Clicking on the Real WOrld →



			4 thoughts on “Computer Vision Applications”		




Neuseeland September 24, 2009 at 12:38 pm 

Hi Ramesh,
Good to see you back. 
Two things come across my mind with regards to this kind of technology: 
1. I could imagine that media analysis for competitive intelligence purposes could be useful. 
2. Another application could be in the field of sports analysis. 
However, it will take some time until these technology could be used practically.






Pingback: Twitted by besmarttart 




Kurt Skifstad October 7, 2009 at 6:39 am 

It would be great to see some success in this area.  Like you said, the story certainly does look familiar, but the market today is different than that faced by previous efforts.  Maybe now is the time? Dunno.
Also, the “home and small business” focus they have on their “Product Overview” page is a bit surprising, but maybe it’s  just a vehicle to get start the discussion (seems like there are much higher value markets to pursue).
Definitely something to track going forward … and it’s nice to see a commercial app that uses Numeta’s HTM technology








Ramesh  Post authorOctober 7, 2009 at 8:48 am 

It is important to achieve success in this area — it has been ’round the corner’ way too long.
I do hope that research community becomes less ‘pure’ in their approach and starts paying some attention to applications.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


