https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/clicking-on-the-real-world








Clicking on the Real WOrld – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Clicking on the Real WOrld    			


San Francisco based GeoVector has a product that uses GPS and compass technology (on mobile phones) to allow you to point your phone to a particular shop or building and get information about it.  You can point to a store and if the store has a website or other information on it, it will bring that out.  I read and wrote about a similar product more than a year ago — the company was also from the Bay area and talked about product for Tokyo.
With maturing GPS technology one can expect more innovativ applications in this direction.  GPS and compass combined with maps and some computer vision technology can provide powerful approaches to click on the real world and get interesting information in the real world.



By Ramesh |
    				October 2, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Computer Vision Applications
Mobile Money — or power of mobile phones to transform →



			3 thoughts on “Clicking on the Real WOrld”		


Pingback: » Clicking on the Real WOrld - Mobile Phones Softwares, Games, Melody, Themes 




amit October 2, 2009 at 2:31 am 

that’s called Augmented Reality








Randy Levine October 2, 2009 at 11:39 am 

That technology is amazing. I saw something like it on an add for the Google phone. It will become more and more mainstream as other phone companies and carriers begin providing the ap. I haven’t seen anything for iPhone yet, but I have my eyes open.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


