https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/mobile-money-or-power-of-mobile-phones-to-transform








Mobile Money — or power of mobile phones to transform – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Mobile Money — or power of mobile phones to transform    			


Economist has a very interesting article (Thanks Neil for pointing this to me) about use of mobile phones to transact money.  By allowing this, it gives the facility to have your checkbook or online banking facilities to people even in remote rural parts of the underdeveloped world.
Moile phones are seeing very innovative applications in developing countries where they never used personal computers.  In fact, it is very interesting to see that mobile phones first allowed these placed to leap frog (or just skip one generation) in communication area by bypassing land lines.  Now the same device is likely to allow developing world to join the computing revolution directly in this advanced phase.
Mobile phones are proving to be one of the most transformative device ever developed.



By Ramesh |
    				October 3, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		8 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Clicking on the Real WOrld
China →



			8 thoughts on “Mobile Money — or power of mobile phones to transform”		




Jon October 3, 2009 at 5:58 pm 

I agree that expanding personal banking through mobile/cell phones is a great thing. Even moreso, i like the potential it has to expand the positive aspects of capitalism to more of  the world.
The only downside is network availability limiting these possibilities. I’m sure it’ll become less common as networks expand but I know there are still many mobile deadzones here in the USA. I can only imagine it’s even worse in less developed and/or more unstable countries.
This is a great leap in the right direction though.








Website design October 8, 2009 at 10:15 pm 

It’s certainly a very good thing to have happened.Mobile phones have certainly come a long way from the time it was first introduced in developing countries.People in the developing countries have benefited a lot from it.Nice post.








Pink Mobiles UK October 28, 2009 at 2:00 pm 

There is absolutely no doubt that the mobile phone has become an incredibly powerful tool. From it’s humble beginnings as a basic communication device, it has emerged as method of communicating via messaging, email and now the internet. In countries where computers are not accessible to many, the mobile phone is no doubt a very beneficial tool.








Live Video Streaming November 5, 2009 at 5:27 am 

I personally prefer personal banking through cell phones. I think it’s indeed an advanced way that the modern people can surely adopt. What say?








alex harrison November 10, 2009 at 2:47 pm 

I think it is absolutely guaranteed that the vast majority of web surfing will be done on mobile devices and if you take twitter as an example, I believe that 70% of all twitter use is on mobile devices. The figure for facebook is 50% and going forward, I think the use of mobile banking will only increase as mobile devices become more sophisticated.
Great post and topical as well.








Search Engine Optimization November 10, 2009 at 11:09 pm 

I completely agree with personal banking through the cell phones and you?








Business Card Design December 7, 2009 at 3:36 am 

There is no doubt that banking through cell phone is an easiest way of transaction.








home staging tampa December 9, 2009 at 10:36 pm 

No doubt, mobile phones have totally changed our way of life.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


