https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/acm-multimedia-2009








ACM Multimedia 2009 – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				ACM Multimedia 2009    			


I am attending ACM Multimedia 2009 conference.  This is a premier conference in the field and is the main reason for me to be in China on this trip.  The conference is going very well.  It is a well organized conference and all the logistics are going very well.
The field of Multimedia is a growing field and that shows at the conference.  
One thing that I find very intriguing is that people are not learning lessons from old ‘media’.  Newspapers and books are going through difficult periods but the nature of conference, the review system, the proceedings, and  the nature of research presentation remains the same.  When I mentioned this is in some groups, people agree that this is right time to do it, but they are afraid to change.
Why are most people, even in these dynamic times, so afraid of the change — even when they see that the result of not changing is almost as bad as disappearing.  
On the positive side, the conference shows that people are at least considering text along with images and video — so they are definitely changing.  Maybe slower than I like to see.



By Ramesh |
    				October 21, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Again in China
More experiences in China →



			2 thoughts on “ACM Multimedia 2009”		




Talleres Uvilla October 21, 2009 at 2:02 pm 

Any video resources about the conference? Multimedia is an interesting subject for me, thank you








Sele October 23, 2009 at 6:09 am 

I agree with your article. 
I think this changes are positive and help us to make life easier.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


