https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/workshops-at-mm09








Workshops at MM09 – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Workshops at MM09    			


Today was the workshop day at ACM MM 2009.  I felt that we had too many workshops.  I gave keynote at one and presented a paper at another.  So whole day was shuttling between the two workshops.  I did enjoy preparing for my Social Media workshop Keynote talk.  Good news was that Vivek Singh, my student, won the best paper award in that workshop (I and Mohan Kankanhalli are co-authors, but full credit to Vivek).  Vivek also won earlier this week the best student paper award (of course I am co-author -and there I can take partial credit) at conference on Situation awareness in Washington DC.  So he is really doing well.
Tomorrow morning I will leave for Hangzhou for another workshop and will leave from Shanghai.
Beijing trip is more or less over.  It has been a good trip.  Met many people and felt good that event-based thinking is catching on and so is the use of context.  I feel that for the progress in Multimedia, these two things are very important.



By Ramesh |
    				October 23, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← More experiences in China
Drunken Scientists and unsolvable problems →



			One thought on “Workshops at MM09”		




e-commerce solutions November 6, 2009 at 2:18 am 

I know you are good at juggling with your multiple work.Good to hear about Vivek winning the award..he’s doing a good job for sure.I know the Chinese language and would like to visit China one day.When will these two things catch up in India i wonder.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


