https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/creating-peopleweb








Creating PeopleWeb – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Creating PeopleWeb    			


Twitter introduced Lists — called TwitterLists – and they are already being used for different applications.
These lists are proving that you give a simple tool to people and they use lots of creativity and come up with all kind of interesting applications.
One of the most novel application that I read about is the list for countries.  They want to create list for countries and have already started the process.  That means in one list you could address all people on Twitter from a country.  Interesting idea — a sure broadcast mechanism to cover all the people.  Once you have such lists, you could put it for different uses, including for things like reverse 911 — say to inform everybody about an emergency situation.



By Ramesh |
    				November 3, 2009 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Multimedia Immersive Experience in Hangzhou (a Show)
Intellectual Property and Universities →



			3 thoughts on “Creating PeopleWeb”		




Content Writing November 5, 2009 at 11:04 pm 

I use Twitter for my business purposes and i am very happy with it’s results.It’s certainly a very unique idea and it has gone down well with people on Twitter.As you have rightly put it-it’s certainly going to be helpful for a lot of purposes.








Tea Accessories November 8, 2009 at 6:56 am 

This is really great idea. I will help many people in many difficult situation, but there is equal chance of being misused, so I think twitter should introduce strong security measure to fight against spammers.








frazer November 9, 2009 at 4:15 am 

Not sure I agree with the use of Twitter to inform of emergency situations, however on the whole lists seems a good idea for networking as I can now instantly find related people with a few clicks.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


