https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/intellectual-property-and-universities








Intellectual Property and Universities – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Intellectual Property and Universities    			


Most universities in USA have become very sensitive to protecting their intellectual prperty and have built strong departments to make sure that enough faculty members are sensitive to applying for intellectual property protection and then trying to license this to make money.  As usually happens, any thing that starts — good or bad — somehow gets copied in most of the rest of the world.  So because US universities started doing this many countries are trying to do the same.
In my research area — computer science and information technology — most patents are good for defensive reasons and hence it makes sense for companies to patent their ideas.  But it is well known that it is not easy to build companies or products based on your patents or even sue some established company based on that.  This is because software — or algorithms — are easily modified and changed and presented as a different idea.  Interestingly, even our own technology transfer department told me that they are now being cautious about patenting algorithmic ideas due to cost/reward structure.
Interesting enough the legal people at most universities reviewing contracts and grants to faculty have not realized — though they work under the same office and maybe under the same management — this thing and they still want to argue who will own intellectual property and commercialization rights till researchers get tired and ready to cancel their research projects.
I don’t know how this culture started in USA.  Based on my readings — Universities are in the business of knowledge creation, distribution, and dissmination; not in the business of building businesses.  I hope some enlightened education administrators see the light and make university’s primary mission of ‘knowledge’ once again primary leaving ‘money’ business as primary to those who are suppose to be in that.

								Tagged on: university business knowledge 



By Ramesh |
    				November 4, 2009 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Creating PeopleWeb
Search and Recommendation →



			2 thoughts on “Intellectual Property and Universities”		




Songs For A Wedding November 8, 2009 at 7:08 pm 

I could not agree with you more when you say “Universities are in the business of knowledge creation, distribution, and dissmination; not in the business of building businesses.” This sheds some light, I believe, on why the US is falling so far behind the rest of the world when it comes to education. What do you think?








Pravee November 17, 2009 at 10:53 am 

The very vision statement of the universities is changing. I believe technological innovation & for profit/fame race has pushed them to be  profitable. Universities bear the expenses on the talented teachers and Market has provided the vent to capitalize on their expenses.
Ultimately one loves one’s desires and not that which is desired (Friedrich Nietzsche); and educational guards are well aware of the outcome of the supply chain management of the education.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


