https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/search-and-recommendation








Search and Recommendation – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Search and Recommendation    			


When ranking was introduced by search engines, the first step towards recommendation was taken.  Ranking is a recommendation by the search engine only based on the keyword.  As search engine technology progressed, more and more ‘recommendation’ was introduced.  As is well known, one of the most active area in search is to create user profiles and understand their context to understand their intent and then recommend what they may be looking.  Of course this is mostly called ranking based on different pieces of information.
At one time, recommendation engines were lot more focussed at only a few shopping sites.  But as advertisement started becoming dominant, search and recommendation also started coming close.  But that is only a short term trend.  In fact recommendation is central to solving the information overload problem.  As we all know, information overload is one the major problems created by advancement in information technology, particularly the Web.
I am sure soon we will see recommendation engines become very active in helping recommend each piece of information for a user and become a strong filter.  That will mean having a better information about the user and her context and use that in filtering what information should go to which user.  This is definitely an interesting challenge for people working on reducing information overlaod.



By Ramesh |
    				November 10, 2009 |
    				             		Prospecting Information |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Intellectual Property and Universities
HighTech in Japan – Toilets →



			2 thoughts on “Search and Recommendation”		




e-commerce solutions November 30, 2009 at 3:09 am 

Hey thanks for the post.The concepts of Search and Recommendation are much better understood now.Please keep me updated on this.Look forward to more such posts from you.








gc March 29, 2010 at 7:53 pm 

Look forward to hearing more on this topic.  Keep us posted.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


