https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/international-academic-research-perspectives








International academic research perspectives – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				International academic research perspectives    			


Sitting in the advisory board of National Institute of Informatics in Tokyo with my colleagues (CEO/directors of majore national research labs in France, Germany, Holland, and Thailand) and listening to their perspectives has strengthened my belief that things definitely work differently in USA compared to many other countries.
NII has a very strong research program and is definitely one of the most exciting research places.  Many research projects here are of world level.  In my own research area, Shin’ichi Sato is doing very good work on video retrieval, concept detection in video, face recognition and related areas.  In many other areas the work is exciting.  I liked the research directions in what they call 3D internet and some aspects related to detecting emotions in text and endowing these emotions to avatars in virtual world.
It is clear, however, that research is quite conservative.  Most research problems are the problems that become popular elsewhere before they are pursued by researchers here.  I did not see any research project that suggested that somebody is adopting a new perspective or is addressing a new problem.
Similarly, it appears that there is some lip-service to working with industry and thinking of start-up but there are neither processes to encourage this not there is any environment to make this happen.  Interestingly, most advisory board members seemed to be saying that this is somehow possible in USA but does not happen at other places so one should not worry much about this.  I also found it surprising that in the society that believes in social harmony and social connections, in NII much emphasis is on making physical netwroks efficient but I did not hear any exciting research in use of Social Networks.  The land of mobile phones, did not have any exciting research projects in this direction also.
It does appear that the research problems and research directions in USA are usually more aggressive and bold.  But then, even in USA most universities are as conservative as NII researchers here and many academicians at strong universities will never think os doing ‘applied research’ till a new field of applied research creates many interesting ‘basic research’ directions.  I guess, the situation is usually that of the drunk man under the lamp post — that I posted here recently.



By Ramesh |
    				November 14, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← HighTech in Japan – Toilets
Text Book on Multimedia →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


