https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/text-book-on-multimedia








Text Book on Multimedia – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Text Book on Multimedia    			


I am in final stages of agreeing to do a text book on Multimedia computing.  This is a serious project that will require good amount of time to finish.  I am thinking of doing it with a very energetic young fellow — Gerald Friedland.
Multimedia has become a way of life in computing.  Yet mulimedia computing is one of the most frquently misunderstood ‘elephant’ in computing where computer scientists look at it only from a very narrow perspective and consider that to be the real problem.  Understanding how multimedia is interpreted and what are the implications of having mutimedia data in many aspects of computing is really essential.  I feel that in many applications, but find it a bit frustrating that most people love to deal sith only a limired aspect of information in one medium and ignore other key sources of information from other medium.
Now it is impossible to bring in all these aspects in just one book, but at least one could try to make people sensitive to these.  ANd if a simple step could be taken to make computer scientists, particularly incoming computing oriented people, then we will make good long term progress.  This project is motivated by this desire.  Don;t know how far we can go in that direction, but it will be nice to make as effort in this right direction.



By Ramesh |
    				November 17, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← International academic research perspectives
More timelines →



			2 thoughts on “Text Book on Multimedia”		




e-commerce solutions November 20, 2009 at 5:58 am 

I haven’t heard of Multimedia computing in the past.I really appreciate your planning to write a book on it.I totally support you in this endeavor of yours.Please let me know after you are done with the book.Eagerly waiting for it.Thanks.








dinesh vadhia November 26, 2009 at 9:09 am 

Your readers might be interested in what we are doing at Xyggy (www.xyggy.com) which is related to multimedia search also called rich-media search.  We call it “item search” where an item can be any data type as well as composite data types.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


