https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/augmented-reality-comes-of-age








Augmented reality comes of Age – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Augmented reality comes of Age    			


Augmented Reality (AR) is becoming a popular word among start-up, particularly mobile phones related start-ups.  Almost on daily basis you see announcement related to some new functionality or a new iPhone/android application related to augmented reality.  Projections from analysts show growing market evolving in this area.
Augmented reality, as the term suggests, is technology to enhance reality around you.  Since mobile phones accompany you to wherever you go and have enough sensors to catch the real aworld around you, including the location, they are the prime target to show you what is and what is happening around you.  Current ARsystems usually project on your phone screen what is around you, may even superimpose on camera image on the screen.  Lately they have also started showing who among your network may be around you and what may be happening around you.  This is definitely an important application when you are at a new place — or even at a familiar place.  Remember until recently, you never felt that navigation systems should be part of a car, but now you have started feeling like that.  In a sense, your navigation system is one of the earliest application of AR.
I find this area very exciting.  particularly with growth in sensor networks it may indeed be one of the most promising area to evolve in the next few years.



By Ramesh |
    				December 2, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		4 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← More timelines
Smart Phones to become Phones →



			4 thoughts on “Augmented reality comes of Age”		




Website design December 2, 2009 at 10:38 pm 

Yeah you are right…Augmented reality has really become very popular these days.Thanks for explaining the concept so very well.Let’s hope it’s here to stay.Look forward to hearing from you soon again.








Matt December 4, 2009 at 7:43 pm 

I have been trying to learn what augmented reality really meant. It’s great to see you explain it so well.
Thanks








Medical Assistant Jobs February 4, 2010 at 12:30 pm 

The concept of Augmented reality is very popular these days. Your articles explains a lot on it.  Wait for more info on this topic!








Kali McCarthy May 5, 2010 at 7:55 pm 

its funny how you hear the term so much yet when you ask what it was or what it meant, the people using it cant explain or give a good description. you did a good job in only 3 short paragraphs.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


