https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/event-analytics








Event Analytics – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Event Analytics    			


Twitter has given rise to a phenomena that is taking interesting directions.  Effectively Twitter allows people to act as human sensors and report on events.  These reports could be either description of an event or an opinion on an event.  In a sense every tweet is an event — either description or meta-event (an event about an event).
Each tweet may not be very important but an aggregation of tweet along space-time-theme dimensions starts giving rise to understanding a situation.  In fact, if one could store these tweets over some time and then play with those, some interesting trends and insights may be gained from such micro behaviour.  This is the beauty of what Twitter brought to Internet.
In our research group, two of my associates (Vivek Singh and Mingyan Gao) and I got interested in developing such tools and have put together a simple environment to start exploring event analytics.  An early version of this is available at http://drishti.calit2.uci.edu/twitter/ .  Feel free to play with it and provide us feedback on what kind of features you would like to see in such an environment.



By Ramesh |
    				December 6, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Smart Phones to become Phones
Current Technical Trends in Internet →



			3 thoughts on “Event Analytics”		




Website design December 9, 2009 at 10:23 pm 

Thanks for the update on event analytics.I use Twitter for business purposes and find it really useful.Thanks for the link.Will check it out.In the meanwhile you keep me updated on it.








web development December 18, 2009 at 10:41 pm 

What Twitter is doing is certainly praiseworthy.I use Twitter a lot and like their recent developments too.Really like Twitter a lot.Thanks for giving all the information.








sports picks buffet review June 1, 2010 at 5:40 pm 

Being able to get real time feedback on things that are happening right now is amazing. Companies can get instant feedback from consumers, and then talk directly to them. If I ever make a comment about a company or product, often the company will send me a message via twitter asking how they can help or something of the sort.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


