https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/current-technical-trends-in-internet








Current Technical Trends in Internet – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Current Technical Trends in Internet    			


Pete Cashmore lists top 10 trends on CNN  (Thanks Suzi for pointing thisw).  The top 5 are
Real Time, Location, Augmented Reality, Content Curation, and Cloud.  Interesting list — who would have thought that Real Time will be at the top of the list just 2 years ago!  I think in the list, real time is far ahead of any other thing.  We are seeing only the tip of the iceberg.  Wait till the concept of each sensor tweeting takes shape.  The real time will be the superset of the Web, not the subset.  The current Web will become the archived version of what people really care – not because it is important but because it is urgent.  We all know that urgency takes precedence over important in life.



By Ramesh |
    				December 7, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Event Analytics
Innovations in India →



			One thought on “Current Technical Trends in Internet”		




e-commerce solutions December 7, 2009 at 11:18 pm 

Hey thanks for the post…you are right.Even i am surprised to see Real Time on top of the list.Yeah i am excited too.We’ll just have to wait and watch.Look forward to hearing from you soon again.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


