https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/innovations-in-india








Innovations in India – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Innovations in India    			


NYT has an article by Vikas Bajaj on Innovations in India — or lack thereof — and the reasons behind it.  In fact what is written here about India is true for many countries as very correctly stated there:
India is held back by a financial system that is reluctant to invest in unproven ideas, an education system that emphasizes rote learning over problem solving, and a culture that looks down on failure and unconventional career choices.
One can replace India by more than 100 countries in the above statement and it will be as or more true.  More one sees innovative and entrepreneurial places, mote it becomes clear that cultural issues play the most important role in building a thriving innovative industry in a place.  What happens in some parts of USA is unique even in USA and is almot unimaginable in most parts of the world.
A good question to ask, then, is how to change culture to make a country more innovative.  This is something that has to start by examples and by creating role models.  Even a country as prosperous and organized as Singapore has not been able to create this culture.  Though they have been talking a lot about doing this and there is strong support — including financial support — from Governemnt.  Irnically, much of such support kills what really results in innovative spirit — it makes people risk-averse and makes them more dependent on Government.  Exactly what you don’t want to happen.



By Ramesh |
    				December 10, 2009 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Current Technical Trends in Internet
Cameras and Internet →



			2 thoughts on “Innovations in India”		




Dinesh Jain December 14, 2009 at 4:22 pm 

Well Vikas is right about many things, but I think he is not really looking at the shoots which are springing up every where in India and people are innovating at every place in India, mainly because, as you rightly said, due to lack of finanical support from government or otherwise. The Indian equivalent is ‘Jugaad’, which has been explained in detail in book called INDIAN CENTURY by KAMAL NATH. 
Hence there are innovations every where in India, but not in ‘traditional western’ sense, which have also started happening. And IMHO the owrld will see those within next 5 years.








Web Graphic Design December 18, 2009 at 12:04 am 

Thanks a lot for the post.I quite agree with Vikas but like the above commenter i would also say that one should look at the root of the problems…look forward to more such posts.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


