https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/cameras-and-internet








Cameras and Internet – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Cameras and Internet    			


I was pretty impressed by Eye-Fi when first I found it and used.  I have been using it.  There are two problems with it, but I have continued using it because the advantage is better than the problem.  The problems — it reduces battery life significantly and open and free Wi-Fi is not available at every place.
Now Nokia announced that soon on all their point-and-shoot cameras, there will be internet available that will allow a picture to be e-mailed directly from camera to anybody.  This is the next step in what I was looking for — now it will have better connectivity and hopefully will not affect battery life as much.
This development really suggests one important trend — soon all devices will have connectivity and may start tweeting.  This will be a very interesting development and will take internet to the next stage in its development.
In this stage physical and cuber world will get closer.



By Ramesh |
    				December 16, 2009 |
    				             		Experiential Computing, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Innovations in India
Geeks like complexity →



			One thought on “Cameras and Internet”		




john December 18, 2009 at 2:42 am 

I think the battery issue should be solved quickly because people are complaining about the battery life when using wi-fi, i’ve heared that they will upgrade the wi-fi to one that will consume less energy and they will also increase battery power and life.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


