https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/geeks-like-complexity








Geeks like complexity – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Geeks like complexity    			


In a very interesting article in Forbes Newsletter, Andrew McAffee says:
And at the risk of oversimplifying and engaging in occupational profiling, geeks like complexity. They like the challenge of fitting a lot into a little, and they also like using the end products that they and their peers at other companies come up with. It’s fun for them to learn about bells and whistles, or to master an opaque user interface (in their saddest delusion, they hope that others will find their advanced tool-use abilities sexy).
Later it is said that
Many people have commented on what social scientist Barry Schwartz has termed “The Paradox of Choice.” We crave choice while finding it paralyzing, and even disheartening.
Very nice points.  And as a person (Geek) who spent most of my time among both researcher types and product designers, I agree with these observations.  People are afraid to design simple and useful system — the fear of being considered ‘simplistic’ drives people to design complext systems.  The same fear — and a lot more pronounced exists — among academicians.  They must obfuscate their ideas behind jargon and mathematics to make them respectable by a very few — less than 10 — people in the world.
I remember when Tom Knoll was my student and was involved in designing Photoshop and was driven by using totally non-Geek terminology so masses could do photo-processing.  He carefully avoided common image processing and computer vision terms.  And thats what made Photoshop what it is today — its simplicity.



By Ramesh |
    				December 18, 2009 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Cameras and Internet
Goggles to Cyberspace →



			One thought on “Geeks like complexity”		




Web Graphic Design December 18, 2009 at 4:14 am 

That’s something really awesome….the news of your student i.e.Photoshop is one of my favourite softwares.Was great reading about your idea of the Geeks and their complexities.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


