https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/need-consolidation-of-experiences-and-making-them-actionable








Need: Consolidation of experiences and making them actionable – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Need: Consolidation of experiences and making them actionable    			


Paradoxically, the tremendous progress in mobile and internet technology has given rise to numerous sources of information and experiences but has also resulted in large volume of unmanageable data. Currently, our life information and experiences are distributed and isolated in different silos.  Consolidation of these sources into actionable information and knowledge could help in enriching, enhancing, and empowering our life.  For example:  all our communication (texting, voice, email, social networks), events and experiences (photos and videos), activities at different locations, and (soon) health related information is collected and is available on our favorite electronic alter-ego.  All that needs to be done is to prospect all this analytically and present it in understandable and actionable form.
I believe that such a device could help people manage their experiences and activities.  This is now needed and I hope that such a device emerges in an attractive product form in 2010.  I will do my best to help design and develop such a device.



By Ramesh |
    				January 3, 2010 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Events: Descriptions and Opinions
Solution: Consolidation of experiences and making them actionable →



			One thought on “Need: Consolidation of experiences and making them actionable”		




e-commerce solutions January 19, 2010 at 4:50 am 

Firstly i would like to wish you a very happy new year.This is an interesting point that you have brought up in this post of yours.The main point is to convert these information into actionable information.I wish your wish turns into reality and you are able to design and develop such a device.All the best to you and do keep me updated on this.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


