https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/solution-consolidation-of-experiences-and-making-them-actionable








Solution: Consolidation of experiences and making them actionable – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Solution: Consolidation of experiences and making them actionable    			


A really good trend is that many companies are developing systems that take experience of one kind and allow people to create, store, share, and revisit experience of that kind.  They also provide some search and analytical funstionality.  Given a strong trend towards API used by most systems, it may be possible to utilize these systems to create a unified index of all experiences.  Of course, creation of such a unified index is not a trivial task, but some serious consideration of what people want and how that could be collected and represented will help in achieving this consilidation.
It is interesting to see how many sites are available that allow you to share your location, photos, statuses, and mails.  By consolidating just these one could develop a powerful system that will make our task easier.
I am definitely interested in seeing such system developed so I could use it.  I will be willing to pay service fee to use such a system.  



By Ramesh |
    				January 6, 2010 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Need: Consolidation of experiences and making them actionable
Personal Analytics →



			One thought on “Solution: Consolidation of experiences and making them actionable”		




e-commerce solutions March 28, 2010 at 11:00 pm 

Thanks for sharing the details.Like you,i too have heard of companies developing multiple systems wherein people are allowed to create, store, share, and revisit experience of that kind.From this it’s apparent that people these days are receptive to new technological advancements.I am curious about this entire thing.Look forward to seeing how many sites come up,which are designed on these lines.Do keep me updated.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


