https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/personal-analytics








Personal Analytics – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Personal Analytics    			


Analytics has emerged as a powerful tool to make important decisions in many areas most notably in enterprise decision making.  Marketing to strategy to credit risk assessment and fraud analyis, analytics is being used for minimizing risk in decision analysis process.  Business analytics has emerged as an area that uses statistical tools and time series analysis for converting data to actionable information.
Some of the most important decisions that we must make in our life are related to our own life.  Surprisingly, these decisions are made based more on our ignorance than on the data.  Until recently, this was due to difficulties in getting data that could be analyzed and used in decision making.  The situation has changed now and there are many sources of data that could be used to do personal analytics and make wise decisions related to our health, wealth, relationships, and profession.  
Personal analytics is the process of personal decision making based on personal data. Given the emphasis on analytics in other areas, it is just a matter of time that we will see emergence of tools to help us using personal analytics.  



By Ramesh |
    				January 27, 2010 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism, Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Solution: Consolidation of experiences and making them actionable
US Institute of Peace →



			3 thoughts on “Personal Analytics”		




Website design January 27, 2010 at 10:13 pm 

Usage of Analytics has become hugely popular these days.Business Analytics is already being widely used and personal analytics is also steadily gaining in popularity.Thanks for explaining the concepts in details.It was great reading this post.Look forward to more such posts from you.








Alterfun February 1, 2010 at 8:13 am 

Analitics is very great stuff, i always try to analize before taking a risk.








Online Shopping February 25, 2012 at 10:36 am 

Great artilce about analitics. Great job mr.Ramesh







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


