https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/us-institute-of-peace








US Institute of Peace – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				US Institute of Peace    			


Today I visited with Ellen Ensel, Anand Vaghese, and Christopher Neu at United States Institute of Peace.  Yes, you are reading it right.  You have heard a lot about Department of Defense and Department of Homeland Security, but never about Institute of Peace.  And I am sorry to say that this Institute is more for studies than for action.  It has very little funding, almost a fraction of rounding error in DoD budget, and currently in a very low key building on which the sign says ‘National Restaurants Association Building’.
Gloria Mark and I started discussing how could we use IT for Peace (IT4P).  More we thought about it, more we got intrigued.  Combination of mobile phones, social networks, games, and other emerging technology may help in educating children and adults in even remote rural parts of the developing as well as troubled world.  When one looks at crimes and fanaticism, there is a strong correlation between education level and peace in a country.  So if we can somehow help education — not just in the sense of ‘formal education’ — of masses in these places, we may help in the cause of IT4P.  We decided to explore this further.  Since I was going to be in NSF and Gloria knew Ellen, this trip was arranged.
The discussions with people from USIP were very encouraging.  It will be great to start some concrete projects in this area.  The topic is certainly of interest to everybody. 



By Ramesh |
    				February 3, 2010 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Personal Analytics
Timeline mashups →



			2 thoughts on “US Institute of Peace”		




web development February 17, 2010 at 10:21 pm 

Thanks for bringing this to my notice.Definitely i am hearing about such a thing for the first time..i.e Institute For Peace.Really glad to read about such an initiative discussed and taken about you guys.This will certainly go a long way in changing the scene in the developing as well as troubled world.I too hope something fruitful comes out from this discussion.Do keep me updated.








On vacation in the Philippines April 8, 2010 at 1:58 am 

About time that peace is discussed and not “anti-war”. Institute for Peace…! Wow. And the more people talk about peace (as opposed to anti-war) the better. It’s all about how the mind works. When we focus on something that’s what we get. Even if it’s “anti”. As mother Theresa said (and I paraphrase it) I don’t support anti-war, but I support anything about peace. — Will we see, in our life time, a world we want to live in? Keep up the good works.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


