https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/context-in-computer-vision








Context in Computer Vision – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Context in Computer Vision    			


Most fields go through cycles.  Computer vision is no exception.  The role of context in computer vision has been something that emerges every few years as if it is a new topic.  Since, this time it appeared that people were thinking that this is something very novel in computer vision, I decided to ‘play’ my experience (or should we say my age) in this area and even decided to select this as the theme of my talk at University of Central Florida.  UCF has become a powerhouse in Computer Vision due to primarily efforts and leadership of Prof. Mubarak Shah.  Since Mubarak was my student (and has remained a good friend — and academic family member) I decided to accept his invitation to give a talk and thought I will use this context at a strong computer vision group.  The abstract that I sent there is:
Contenxt: Bridging the semantic gap
Ramesh Jain
Department of Computer Science
University of California, Irvine
Irvine, CA 92617
jain@ics.uci.edu
Progress in many technologies related to pattern recognition, computer vision, machine learning, and multimedia processing face the semantic gap as a major hurdle in progress.  Research in these areas has focused on developing increasingly rigorous techniques using the content, but with little rewards.  Lately, many commercial systems have ignored content in favor of context and demonstrated limited success.  We believe that it is not Content Versus Context; rather it is Contenxt (Content and Context) that is required to bridge the semantic gap.  In this presentation, first we will discuss reasons for our approach and then present approaches that appropriately combine content and context to solve some problems in computer vision and multimedia.
I plan to share my thoughts here to build my talk — maybe with help of some of you — and then will post my talk here.



By Ramesh |
    				March 30, 2010 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Next Generation Search in 2010
Situation Awareness – emerging approaches →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


