https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/situation-awareness-emerging-approaches








Situation Awareness – emerging approaches – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Situation Awareness – emerging approaches    			


At a SPIE conference, I gave a talk on Situation Awareness.  You can see the talk here.
The tools and techniques for determining situation awareness are definitely emerging and are going to be more the tools that will be used in the EventWeb.  My students, particularly Mingyan Gao and Vivek Singh, are developing tools that will help first to deal with Twitter and facebook like sources but then will be extended to all kind of sensors.  The basic motivation is to identify all micro events taking place so one could aggregate, assimilate, and composite them into situations that could then be used for deciding on the specific actions.
A very pleasant thing was that questions and Prof David Hall’s talk (he followed me) showed that people have started considering Twitter like sources very seriously and are now looking at these as serious information sources.  Prof Hall mentioned the recent Portland event that was solved using Twitter several times in his discussion.
Now I have to get ready for the talk on COntenxt tomorrow.



By Ramesh |
    				April 8, 2010 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Context in Computer Vision
Contenxt (Not content or context) in computer vision →



			2 thoughts on “Situation Awareness – emerging approaches”		




Amit Sheth April 9, 2010 at 5:17 am 

Ramesh– noted your comment on Prof. David Hall’s talk– need to check out (I assume SPIE web site has it?).  We have build Twtris to extract social signal or get situational awareness in the limited sense of giving spatio-temporal-thematic study of Tweets: play with it at http://twitris.knoesis.org (needs to be updated), bit.ly/DD-Twitris and http://bit.ly/s-signals








Blog customization April 20, 2010 at 11:51 pm 

Firstly thanks a lot for providing a link to the talk.I am hearing a term called “situation awareness” for the first time.This development will certainly take the whole thing to another level.Please keep me updated on this.Would like to more about it especially when your students have finished their task.Quite intrigued by the entire thing.The whole social networking thing has become serious information sources indeed.Thank you very much.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


