https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/what-the-web-cant-do








What the Web can’t do. – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				What the Web can’t do.    			


In a couple hours I will be participating in a panel ‘What the Web can’t do’ at WWW 2010 in Raleigh North Carolina (at 10:30 AM).  Interesting topic.
The Web started as a document web — a web of linked pages or documents.  Most things on the web still have the legacy of that — we have modified HTML developed different protocols and approaches related to HTTP, but our thinking has not come out of the ‘page’ oriented thinking.  In these days when the Web is rapidly transforming from pages to pictures, video, tweets (micro-events), and connection with physical space — think Foursquare etc — we need to think as if the Web is a window to the world and this window is more like a perspective of a person, rather than a fixed window.  Is the Web ready for this?  Not in my opinion and will not be ready for several years if we start working with the new perspective now.



By Ramesh |
    				April 29, 2010 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← NSF III Workshop:  Good Workshop but will it change anything?
Emerging Trends from WWW2010 →



			2 thoughts on “What the Web can’t do.”		




Kaushik Biswas June 10, 2010 at 3:40 pm 

Ramesh’ji, I wanted to know if it is possible to have a live webcam feed in our blogs with a chat script so that if a visitor wants he can talk live with us instead of commenting on posts? Is it possible, suppose, in the sidebar?








tera RMT April 24, 2012 at 7:04 pm 

This is my first time i stop by here. I found countless entertaining stuff in your blog, especially its discussion. From the tons of comments on your articles, I guess I am not the only just one having all of the leisure here! retain up the good work.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


