https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/nl-3-beyond-the-current-www








NL 3: Beyond the current WWW – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				NL 3: Beyond the current WWW    			


NL system takes the Web approach to the next stage.  Some salient features of this system are:
1.	In addition to people creating content, the content is also created by myriad sensors.
2.	The content is not only documents (containing photos and videos), but is also live events and experiences associated with events.
3.	Access to content is not only based on search and navigation mechanisms, but is also closely tied to the physical context (such as place and time) of the user.
4.	People can access past documents and data, but can also be immersed in live events.
5.	Past data and current context can be used to predict future events for alerting a user.
We believe that the above functionality will be gradually implemented in NL.  The design of NL is influenced by the goal to bring above functionalities.  



By Ramesh |
    				June 23, 2010 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← NowLedger 2
Likes, loyalties, and choices →



			One thought on “NL 3: Beyond the current WWW”		




Urmi July 21, 2010 at 2:57 am 

Thanks for the details.NL according to me will go a long way in making functionalities more prominent.I am very hopeful with NL.Would keep a close track of it too.Look forward to more such details.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


