https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/content-without-context-is-meaningless








Content Without COntext is Meaningless – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Content Without COntext is Meaningless    			


With Pinaki Sinha, I just finished a research paper titled: Content Without Context is Meaningless.  Its abstract reads:
We revisit one of the most fundamental problems in multimedia that is receiving enormous attention from researchers without making much progress in solving it: the problem of bridging the semantic gap. Research in this area has focused on developing increasingly rigorous techniques using the content. Researchers consider that Content is King and ignore everything else. In this paper, first we will discuss how this infatuation with content continues to be the biggest hurdle in the success of, ironically, content based approaches for multimedia search. Lately, many commercial systems have ignored content in favor of context and demonstrated better success. Given that the mobile phones are the major platform for the next generation of computing, context becomes easily available and more relevant. We show that it is not Content Versus Context; rather it is Content and Context that is required to bridge the semantic gap. In this paper, first we will discuss reasons for our approach and then present approaches that appropriately combine context with content to help bridge the semantic gap and solve important problems in multimedia computing.



By Ramesh |
    				August 3, 2010 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Milkshake, Drunk Researcher, and Problem Solving
Social Pixels →



			One thought on “Content Without COntext is Meaningless”		




dinesh vadhia August 4, 2010 at 7:03 am 

Ramesh
Thoroughly enjoyed your paper and its subject is very close to what we are doing at Xyggy.  I concur that combining content and context makes a significant difference in multimedia information retrieval.  
I think the paper should highlight the difference between user generated context (the primary mode of commercial search engines) and machine generated context (eg. ELIF and other sensor data).  It is important to differentiate the two because user-generated context is noisy and machine generated context isn’t noisy (and hence far more valuable).
Dinesh







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


