https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/lifelog-made-easy








LifeLog made easy – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				LifeLog made easy    			


A few years ago, lots of activity started in logging one’s lifeusing all kind of electronic devices.  A DARPA project with the name LifeLog was launched but was later cancelled due to privacy issues.  But many other efforts started at that time including (possibly the best known) MyLifeBits and others.  The whole concept is very appealing: one can record all activities and then review, analyze, and re-experience for different purposes.  The challenges ranged from collecting information to storing and organizing that information and finally using it.  Luckily, one after the other most challenges have become easier, if not solved, due to enormous progress in technology.  Now it is possible to easily implement a version of LifeLog for making it useful as well as enjoyable.
The most important progress made in making LifeLog a reality is in the form of smartphones.  These devices are now equipped with more sensors than one could imagine just a few years ago.  Moreover, these devices can store all kind of information about a person, their activities, their communications, and their experiences.  They also have enough processing power to analyze and organize all this information and present to you for reflecting and re-experiencing it.  Many applications addressing one aspect of LifeLog have been introduced but these are currently not as usueful as they could be due to their limited scope.  By develoing applications that could address activities, communications, and experiences of an individual, one could create an application that may be very enjoyable and useful.
Due to my long term interest in this area — I called it eChronicles in 2004 — I am very interested in seeing such a product in action.  In fact, some of my friends are helping me to realize this dream — so it is very possible that soon, very soon, I may be able to share with you my long term vision in terms of a product vision with you right here.

								Tagged on: LifeLog, mChron 



By Ramesh |
    				August 30, 2010 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Current Research Challenges in Computer Vision and Multimedia
Reflecting on your life →



			One thought on “LifeLog made easy”		




amanation October 31, 2010 at 4:09 am 

LifeLog aims to compile a massive electronic database of every activity and relationship a person engages in. This is to include credit card purchases, web sites visited, the content of telephone calls and e-mails sent and received, scans of faxes and postal mail sent and received, instant messages sent and received, books and magazines read, television and radio selections, physical location recorded via wearable GPS sensors, biomedical data captured through wearable sensors, The high level goal of this data logging is to identify “preferences, plans, goals, and other markers of intentionality







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


