https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/tag/lifelog








LifeLog – Ramesh Jain




























 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation



LifeLog






 



Semantic Link in Photos



A picture is worth a thousand words …. Although this phrase emerged in the analog age of the early 20th century, the rise of digital photography offers the tantalizing possibility of joining each image’s thousand words with those of others,… 



By Ramesh |
    				April 24, 2015 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Objective Self 3: Quantified Self is a step towards Objective Self



The 21st century started with significantly advanced storage, processing, sensing, and communication technologies. All these have resulted in popularization of strong data-dependent approaches. Big Data became the biggest buzz word one can imagine. Since scientific approaches emphasized observation and systematic… 



By Ramesh |
    				July 31, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






From Calendars to Chronicles: 2



For the longest time, people have been interested in past events as well as the discovery, collection, organization, and presentation of information about these events. The motivations for this ranges from simply revisiting enjoyable events to creating knowledge by analyzing… 



By Ramesh |
    				July 19, 2013 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			
Read more 






Developing Actionable Personal Intelligence for everyone



Business intelligence emerged out of desire to correlate different data sources for analyzing focused business events for taking data-supported actions.  We believe that time has come to develop actionable personal intelligence techniques using the data being continuously collected by our phones and other devices.



By Ramesh |
    				May 15, 2011 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism, Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			
Read more 






LifeLog made easy



A few years ago, lots of activity started in logging one’s lifeusing all kind of electronic devices. A DARPA project with the name LifeLog was launched but was later cancelled due to privacy issues. But many other efforts started at… 



By Ramesh |
    				August 30, 2010 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			
Read more 












Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


