https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/reflecting-on-your-life








Reflecting on your life – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Reflecting on your life    			


Many projects like LifeLog, myLifeBits, and eChronicles started to keep track of life memories.  In fact UK has a computing Grand Challenge called “Memories for Life” that is related to this.  People find it fascinating to save their experiences and then revisit them, share them, and reflect on life using those.  Most of the above projects required use of many special devices that were to be used for collecting your experiences.
The world has changed in the last few years.  Most of us now carry a smart phone — or soon-to-become smart phone – with us all the time.  And that device — I hesitate to call it a phone — collects many of our experiences using built in sensors and connectivity.  We can simply use the experiences collected non-intrusively or somewhat voluntarily with least effort to provide an early version of LifeLog that could be used effectively by most of us.
mChron (Disclosure:  I am a co-founder) has just announced availability of an alpha version of their software on Android.  So if you have an android, you could become an alpha-user for this software.  Just send me a mail.  The product description says:
iReflect is a fun and exciting application which lets you  review, reminisce, enjoy, and analyze your life experiences. Planning a surprise for your anniversary but forgot where you went on your first date? Fear no more, iReflect reminds and allows you to recall if your loved one enjoyed the place or not! Relax and remember the good times while iReflect does all the work for you. You will be able to reflect on your social, professional, or fitness activities such as the emotions you and your friends felt watching your team win its first championship or if  going to  the gym with certain people is  helping you reach your fitness goals or not. iReflect automatically collects your life experiences and allows you to recall key instances by organizing and examining conversation streams, activities, photos,  and calendar events.



By Ramesh |
    				September 14, 2010 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← LifeLog made easy
Meta Data is also Data →



			2 thoughts on “Reflecting on your life”		




Paid Online Surveys October 19, 2010 at 10:56 pm 

Don’t you feel the supressions of SOME memories is a key part of being able to cope and grow and learn as an adult. If we remember every little thing that ever way and ever happened to us, I think we would all still be terrified of monsters under our bed!








Anu October 20, 2010 at 12:15 pm 

Recently, I’ve heard a lot about Androids. Could somebody please explain what is it?







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


