https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/social-life-networks-sln








Social Life Networks (SLN) – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Social Life Networks (SLN)    			


We are living in an age of social media that provides numerous channels for digital expression and sharing with people almost instantaneously in any part of the world. By bringing different media as well as modes of distribution — focused, narrowcast, and broadcast — social networks (SN) have revolutionized communication among people. Many people believe that almost instantaneous communication using Social Networks and their ability to provide different types of communications is at least partly responsible for the spread of revolution in the recent times — particularly the last one month — in several countries.  This may be exaggeration of the role, though I believe this to be quite accurate, of the social media.  It is clear, however, that social media is a new mode of communication and it is going to be with us and will be a dominant mode of connecting people across distances.
Technology is advancing rapidly, particularly in the areas of mobile phones and sensors and sensor networks.  I believe that by using the enormous reach of mobile phones equipped with myriads of sensors, the next generation of social networks can be designed not only to connect people with other people, but to connect people with other people and essential life resources. We call these networks Social Life Networks (SLN) and believe that this is the right time to focus efforts to discover and develop technology and infrastructure to design and build these networks.  Social Life Networks may be the mechanism that will bring the digital dividend to masses in developing countries.
In a series of posts I will present few ideas that we are putting together in a white paper related to this topic.

								Tagged on: connecting people to resources, Digital Dividend, Social Life Networks 



By Ramesh |
    				February 17, 2011 |
    				             		Experiential Computing |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Visual Reflections
Photo Taking Behaviour: Past →



			One thought on “Social Life Networks (SLN)”		




Justin March 14, 2011 at 4:42 am 

Well to live life in this tech savvy world, u need to be upgraded and what this Social Networks giving us is new definition of networking. Really nice blog.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


