https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/phone-as-identity








Phone as identity – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Phone as identity    			


Almost everybody has a mobile phone now.  Worldwide there are more than 5 Billion mobile phones in the world and 6.5 Billion people.  Based on this, many people have thought of using phone numbers as ‘id’ for a person.  An entrepreneurial friend – Rajesh Jain from Mumbai India — has taken an interesting step based on this idea.  He formed a company — Phone.cc — that will allow you to create your ‘web site’ which will be your phone-num.cc.  So if your number is 1234567890 then your site will be 1234567890.cc.  This site will be linked to your phone and will know who you are in real world.
Once you have this, one can start developing all kind of interesting things that will become part of your information — which could be private, for your groups, or for everybody.  It is your decision what you do with the site.
I think this is a great idea with strong potential.   I saw a demo and heard about 3 weeks ago in Mumbai, but could not get out of my head though have been very busy — had to scribble about it at the first opportunity.



By Ramesh |
    				April 30, 2011 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Photo Taking Behaviour: Teens of Photography
Photos are more than Fleeting experiences →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


