https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/visr-is-in-android-marketplace








VisR is in Android Marketplace – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				VisR is in Android Marketplace    			


I have been working with a team of entrepreneurs in designing a Visual Sharing and Reflection system based primarily on mobile phones.    It is nice to see that this application, called VisR, is now released on Android. From the description of the application,

VisR:
VisR helps you spontaneously capture, share, organize, and reflect on moments effortlessly.  Seize the moments and relive with friends and family. Never again spend countless tedious hours searching for and organizing pictures on your phone.  
Do you love sharing  experiences, but find it aggravating to locate the perfect picture to describe it?  VisR removes this issue. VisR automagically classifies and organizes photos utilizing information readily available on your mobile phone in a what, when, where, and who form that is specific to you. You can find the photo of interest and with a few taps post it to your favorite place such as Facebook or Twitter.

iPhone application is coming soon.
Currently VisR is free and is also supported by a website where you can see all photos shared by you and others.  As usual, what you see is a very early functionality of this system.  The team wants to move fast and make an application that allows you to share your moments (may be using special effects and special lenses) spontaneously, but also effortlessly organize all the photos that you take in a form natural for you to access and share.  It uses events to organize photos but these events, unlike many current systems, and not just the date, but use multiple sources to identify them.
I am very happy to share this News with you.  I do intend to use all the feedback and work with the team in refining the system so my almost 20 year old dream of organizing and accessing photos and other visual media may become reality soon.

								Tagged on: Mobile Photos, photo management, Photography, Sharing photos 



By Ramesh |
    				June 1, 2011 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism, Experiential Computing, General Updates |
             	 
    				             		2 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Automatic Summarization of Personal Photo Collections: Pinaki Sinha’s Thesis
Transformation or Froth: Visual Communication →



			2 thoughts on “VisR is in Android Marketplace”		




Degage Tuanua June 13, 2011 at 4:04 am 

Yah! absolutely great technology the definitely enriches android. It is surely going to  make ease  sharing and organizing of your photos on ur phone.
thank you for the post.








intelligent new generation June 14, 2011 at 4:25 am 

currently am using android phone, is it free ??  something like flicr ?







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


