https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/honored-surprised-and-started-thinking








Honored, surprised, and then some thoughts – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Honored, surprised, and then some thoughts    			


A colleague of mine mentioned that I am listed in a List of Computer Scientists on Wikipedia.  I visited the list and must say that I am honored and surprised.  Honored is obvious — and surprised is because I never took a class in computer science so was not formally trained in computer science, but more importantly, because this list (at this stage) is a relatively short list and finding my name in this list is truly surprising.  
I don’t know how these things happen — and did not even know about my name being on the list, in fact did not know that such a list exists.  What is more important is that many systems in our society are going through transformations — and one can argue about ‘validity’ and implications of those but their existence makes you think about the future.  The system in which a few people formed a ‘society’ and that society conferred an honor such as a ‘Fellow’ (and luckily I have a fair share of those) was a different mechanism than creating purely in a bottom-up manner a list like this one.  Is this going to become as commonly– or more —  used method of recognition?  Time will tell.  I feel that the last few year’s socio-technical changes are definitely transformative.
In any case, THANKS to those who made my ‘ego’ feel good by putting me on this list.  Now I am more motivated to contribute some ideas that will make me convinced me that I belong in a list like this.

								Tagged on: Computer Scientists, wikipedia 



By Ramesh |
    				June 19, 2011 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		1 Comment |
             	 		          				
    			


← Transformation or Froth: Visual Communication
Events are ‘transparent’ →



			One thought on “Honored, surprised, and then some thoughts”		




Michael June 28, 2011 at 4:14 am 

Enjoy it anyways. Congratulations!







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


