https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/micro-blogs-and-blogs








Micro-blogs and blogs – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Micro-blogs and blogs    			


I am coming back to my old blogging after a a few months of hiatus.  I started blogging during my battle with cancer to update all my friends about my situation and after conquering cancer, continued with blog.  It became a habit.  But then came Tweets (from Twitter) and Status Updates (from FaceBook) and these micro-blogs gave easy options and a way to share your thoughts and opinions without thinking hard and spending more time in expressing your thoughts.  And I must say that I did miss not sharing my detailed thoughts — because it also gives me a chance to think better — but it was just easier.
Lately, I have been involved in some ideas and discussions that required that I think about those.  And I usually think best when explaining.  And that suggested that I get back to this medium of expression — blogs.  Micro-blogs are good for spontaneity; blogs are good for deliberate thinking.  Micro-blogs are good for simple comments on an issue; blogs allow you to take a strong position on the issue.  Clearly both have their place in self-expression.  
I missed blogs for some time.  But now will try to be reasonably regular so I can think better about Experiential Computing, Social Life Networks, and consumer centric health care.



By Ramesh |
    				January 26, 2012 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← VisR: Silent helper to Organize Visual memories of Events
Status Updates are Micro-stories →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


