https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/extreme-stories-4








Extreme Stories: 4 – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Extreme Stories: 4    			


One one hand we have micro-stories that reflect experience of just one ‘small’ event.  Such an event could be a meeting, a party, or anything that is considered by user as something worth sharing experience but not worth a detailed sharing.  In fact the same event could be shared in more details then it may become a regular story, rather than a micro-story.  Micro-story is more related to how important the experiencer considers the experience in a given context.  It reflects more on the importance give to the sharing than the event.  In fact a user may share a micro-story with one user, while share a much longer story with another user.
On the other extreme one could consider two types of stories.  One form of the story is the one in which experience of many related events may be shared.  Thus if I want to create a story of my last China trip that lasted 8 days, spanned 3 cities, and contained more than 400 events that were captured, then I have to use processes that are very different than what I do for sharing a micro-story.  A micro-story is spontaneous and is ussually effortless.  The popularity of social networks is definitely a result of technology for tweeting, staus pdates and similar other spontaneous tools for such spontaneous sharing.  But the story of the above China trip is more than a simple collection of microstories of all the events that took place during the period.



By Ramesh |
    				February 13, 2012 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Extreme Stories: 3
Extreme Stories: 5 →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


