https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/lifelesson-2-should-should-come-before-could








LifeLesson 2: Should should come before Could – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				LifeLesson 2: Should should come before Could    			


One of the most important thing in life is bold thinking.  Many times we build walls around our thoughts and then think within the box created by those walls.  I found that we create these walls more often than we think – in fact most of the time – and use all kind of trivial reasons to justify.  This limits our thinking and the results of the thinking are definitely suboptimal, if not useless.
LifeLesson 2:  When thinking about a problem or an issue, first think about what should be done.  Once you have the results of your thinking, then only think what could be done with practical constraints.  Should is important and should be used in initial thinking.  Could should only come after Should.
All new solutions, all innovative approaches start with bold thinking without any constraints.  If something is really important, then even if it is not feasible today, people will make it feasible some day. 

								Tagged on: could bold thinking, should 



By Ramesh |
    				June 20, 2012 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		5 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← LifeLesson 1: Get Bad News as soon as possible.
Thinking within the Box: Putting Could Before Should →



			5 thoughts on “LifeLesson 2: Should should come before Could”		




Tobias October 12, 2012 at 12:00 pm 

you absolutely right, we have a good slogan in germany overhere, “Why making it easy, when you can do it the hard way”, when you translate it to english, i hope you understand.
Thats why i respect the brand apple so much, because they come with great ideas, how everything can handle more easy.
Or when you take a look at the twitter creator 😉








Mobile App Development February 27, 2013 at 2:17 am 

I totally agree with you that people always build walls around their thoughts. We really constant create these walls, it’s really one of bad featured to increase our thought and confidence level.








Yoggy52 March 5, 2013 at 2:43 pm 

I love your blog








oyun skor March 22, 2013 at 8:15 am 

I almost agree with your thoughts








Rta Cabinets July 26, 2013 at 11:44 pm 

I like your blog. It’s fantastic and give the knowledge about thinking.
I agree with your thought.
Thanks Sir.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


