https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/objective-self








Objective Self – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Objective Self    			


There was a time, not really long ago, when all information about a person was very subjective.  Even self opinions were subjective and other people’s opinion were always way out there.  But that was before the information technology revolution.  The info tech revolution started changing things.  And the last few years have been nothing but revolutionary in this area.  Now we have seen a revolution that allows capturing information about ‘self’ from many sources — sometimes I feel too many sources.  Granted some of them are still subjective like when my wife criticizes me, but many of them are becoming very objective like ehen my Nike FuelBand says that I had a wonderful day.
What we are seeing is a major trend:
Subjective Self: All self as well as others opinions were totally subjective.
Aggregated but still subjective self: When we aggregate subjective information to get some objectivity in it.
Quantified Self:  People start collecting information about self using sensors.  Usually sensors don’t lie, they give fairly objective information.  But people are just collecting data for some aspects of their life.
Objective Self:  When people will collect objective information from several sources and use it for their benefit and interactions in society.
I am very excites about this,  But this may end my self deception.

								Tagged on: objective, quantified self, subjective 



By Ramesh |
    				October 27, 2012 |
    				             		Experiential Computing, General Updates |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Social Systems and Big Data
RIP My four legged son →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


