https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/rip-my-four-legged-son








RIP My four legged son – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				RIP My four legged son    			


RIP Osito.  My four legged son, and my BFF.

I still remember July 1996 when Swati brought home a small creature that we could hold in our palm — and we fell in love with him.  Suzi name him Osito.  Neil became his best buddy.  And Sudha, well he became the most important ‘person’ in her life.  In all our life.  Juarez family loved him and he did them.
After 16+ years of unconditional love, enjoyment, and friendship, he decided to leave the way he always was — without giving any problem to us and peacefully.  He never has any health problems — but old age started making him without hearing, smell, and eyesight.  Last few months were difficult for him, but he was still the same:  energetic, demanding for love and food, and waiting for us.
Hey, Osito, we loved you so much and liked everything about you.  Just one complain — why couldn’t you wait for your Mom and me to come back home from our trip.  Maybe Adolpho is right — you just wanted to peacefully leave us without any hassle.
You will always be part of our life.
RIP, Osito.



By Ramesh |
    				October 29, 2012 |
    				             		Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		3 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Objective Self
Creating Persona using data streams →



			3 thoughts on “RIP My four legged son”		




Santhosh October 30, 2012 at 11:50 pm 

Ramesh,
Sorry to hear about Osito.  You are blessed to have  received 16 years of unconditional (Ok, other than food and the occasional belly rub) love and joy from Osito.
I have 2 Labrador  and an American Eskimo (swooped off the streets :))  so I know your feelings. 
Regards
–Santhosh








mccullem ashley February 21, 2013 at 8:35 am 

sorry to hear it.. i know the affection with canines can’t be expressed with words RIP to your son overcome soon from the loss








Sandra Barker February 27, 2013 at 10:18 pm 

I feel sorry for what happened to your precious dog. I have dogs at home too. And I love them just the way you love your dog. The thing is, I’m also afraid of them leaving me in the future. They are one of the most precious creature ever made by God. Thank you for your share. Hoping you’re okay now.







Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


