https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/tag/objective-self








Objective Self – Ramesh Jain




























 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation



Objective Self






 



Healthy Foodie



Food is important for health and happiness. Every culture perfects their culinary art and takes pride in their food. Most important activities in all cultures revolve around food. Different cultures and religions suggest what one should eat and what is… 



By Ramesh |
    				July 1, 2016 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Objective Self 6: From an individual to society



An individual is just an individual. And each individual is unique. In a human society, individuals interact and associate in many ways. Also, many human beings are related to each other along many dimensions ranging from their living area, profession,… 



By Ramesh |
    				August 19, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Objective Self 5:  Finally We may have Objective Self



As discussed above, the quantified-self movement is an important step in bringing scientific framework to understand an individual based on data collected continuously. This is the first time in history of humanity that this has become feasible. The early stages… 



By Ramesh |
    				August 18, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Objective Self 4:  You are the Most Important.



To each of us, the most important object or entity is self. All human beings are interested in understanding self to maximize satisfaction from their life. This satisfaction maximization requires having a better model for individual life. Most sociological and… 



By Ramesh |
    				August 4, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Objective Self 3: Quantified Self is a step towards Objective Self



The 21st century started with significantly advanced storage, processing, sensing, and communication technologies. All these have resulted in popularization of strong data-dependent approaches. Big Data became the biggest buzz word one can imagine. Since scientific approaches emphasized observation and systematic… 



By Ramesh |
    				July 31, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 



« Previous












Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


