https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/corelation-is-the-mother-of-causality








Corelation is the Mother of Causality – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Corelation is the Mother of Causality    			


I have always heard, for as long as I remember, that correlation and causality are not the same.  That is OK.  They are indeed different.
But there is always this implication by many, if not the most, people that correlation is second class and causality is the first class.  Causality should be respected while one should be cautious about correlations.
It bothers me whenever I hear that implication about the superiority of causality.  To me it is like saying that invention is better than necessity or that a baby is better than his mother.  Clearly there is a strong relationship between a mother and a baby and every mother wants her baby to go much farther than her.  It is important to remember, however, that baby follows mother.  Similarly, if there is no necessity than there is no need for invention, or without an established causal necessity, an invention is worthless.
Correlation is observed in data and then only people think of finding out the causal chain.  Except in purely theoretical reasoning, correlation seeds the need for causality.  Hence, I say that ‘Correlation is the Mother of Causality’.
In these days of Big Data (hype) if there is some thing really important, it is to understand correlations because then only causality may be explored and established.

								Tagged on: big data, causality, correlation 



By Ramesh |
    				March 27, 2013 |
    				             		General Updates, Prospecting Information |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Building on the Disruption in Learning and Education
Using Big Data for Storytelling →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


