https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/healthy-foodie








Healthy Foodie – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				Healthy Foodie    			


Food is important for health and happiness.
Every culture perfects their culinary art and takes pride in their food.  Most important activities in all cultures revolve around food.  Different cultures and religions suggest what one should eat and what is forbidden.  People enjoy food.
Now every healthcare professional wants you to be conscious of nutrition-content of the food.  Your doctors tell you what and how much you should eat.  Food is an important component of your lifestyle.  Food determines your health.

How can technology help food?  Increasingly, culinary artists as well as healthcare professionals are looking at technology to enhance food which in turn will enhance quality of life.  Culinary artists are interested in making our multi-sensory food experience more exciting and pleasant.  Healthcare experts are interested in helping us enjoy our culinary experience as long as possible by increasing our life healthy as well as long.

We want to apply technology to help people enjoy food by selecting right food, at right time, at right place, in right company.  We see role of technology at various stages ranging from finding what to eat, to eat balanced nutritious food, be sensitive to their personal health situation, and satisfy their personal culinary tastes.  There is very little to help healthy foodies currently.  We want to change this situation by developing technology to collect, manage, and use big food data to assist individuals manage their culinary and health experience using modern wearables and smartphones. 

We are forming a group of healthy foodies.  We want to apply latest knowledge in computer science, healthcare, and art to make food even more enjoyable and healthier
We believe time is right.

								Tagged on: Food, Foodie, foodlog, foodtech, Health, Objective Self, quantified self 



By Ramesh |
    				July 1, 2016 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			


← AI = Contextual Reasoning + Learning
Community Computing →















Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


