https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/category/technical-thoughts/page/3








Technical Thoughts – Page 3 – Ramesh Jain




























 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation



Technical Thoughts






 



Back to Cyber – 2: Computational Cybernetics



From computational perspective, there are the following major steps in building a cybernetic system: • Building model of the system • Measuring appropriate parameters continuously • Estimating State • Deciding actions to be applied to the system The easiest to… 



By Ramesh |
    				October 7, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Back to Cyber – 1



With advances in computing, we now live in the cyber space, talk about Cyber-Physical systems, and have started thinking about Cyber-Physical-Social systems. Cyber has become almost synonymous with Internet and the Web. Social computing is taking us back to the… 



By Ramesh |
    				October 5, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Objective Self 6: From an individual to society



An individual is just an individual. And each individual is unique. In a human society, individuals interact and associate in many ways. Also, many human beings are related to each other along many dimensions ranging from their living area, profession,… 



By Ramesh |
    				August 19, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Objective Self 2: Garbage Data results in Garbage Models



The interest in Self has been a complex but sustained quest in every culture. The issues that complicated this quest and continue to do so remain: • Getting enough objective data • Storing data • Analyzing data • Privacy of… 



By Ramesh |
    				July 30, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Calendars to Chronicles: 6



Data Warehouses are Chronicles Business enterprises have a major challenge: making efficient and effective decisions all the time. This challenge can only be solved by knowing what the current situation in the organization is and what happened in the past… 



By Ramesh |
    				August 4, 2013 |
    				             		Experiential Computing, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			
Read more 



« Previous
Next »











Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


