https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/category/general-updates








General Updates – Ramesh Jain




























 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation



General Updates






 



Empowering Personal Health


 
What if an app could guide patients to their health goals, similar to how GPS navigation directs people to a desired destination? What if we could use real-time information from smartphones and other sensors to redirect people around a disease,… 



By Ramesh |
    				May 29, 2018 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Techology Propels Health



Most major transformations in healthcare are the result of technological advances, leading to improved effectiveness and precision. We are now on the cusp of the next major evolution in health and medicine, and once again, technology is the key. In… 



By Ramesh |
    				September 14, 2017 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Health Intelligence



The quest for a healthy life is as old as human existence, and it will persist as long as someone is around to draw breath. Presently, progress in genetics, sensors, computing, and mobile technology is transforming this quest by altering… 



By Ramesh |
    				September 5, 2017 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Healthy Foodie



Food is important for health and happiness. Every culture perfects their culinary art and takes pride in their food. Most important activities in all cultures revolve around food. Different cultures and religions suggest what one should eat and what is… 



By Ramesh |
    				July 1, 2016 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






AI = Contextual Reasoning + Learning



Artificial Intelligence (AI) has four seasons: hype, disappointment, funding drought, and renewed interest. I’ve been involved in AI research for quite some time—I became a fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) in 1993—and I’ve weathered… 



By Ramesh |
    				May 12, 2015 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 



« Previous












Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


