https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/author/ramesh/page/4








Ramesh – Page 4 – Ramesh Jain




























 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



Objective Self 4:  You are the Most Important.



To each of us, the most important object or entity is self. All human beings are interested in understanding self to maximize satisfaction from their life. This satisfaction maximization requires having a better model for individual life. Most sociological and… 



By Ramesh |
    				August 4, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Objective Self 3: Quantified Self is a step towards Objective Self



The 21st century started with significantly advanced storage, processing, sensing, and communication technologies. All these have resulted in popularization of strong data-dependent approaches. Big Data became the biggest buzz word one can imagine. Since scientific approaches emphasized observation and systematic… 



By Ramesh |
    				July 31, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Objective Self 2: Garbage Data results in Garbage Models



The interest in Self has been a complex but sustained quest in every culture. The issues that complicated this quest and continue to do so remain: • Getting enough objective data • Storing data • Analyzing data • Privacy of… 



By Ramesh |
    				July 30, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Objective Reality: 1



To most humans, the most important object is ‘self’. Humans have always been interested in understanding themselves and their relationship with their environment. Understanding the environment is important to survive and thrive in the present situation and plan for the… 



By Ramesh |
    				July 29, 2014 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				 		          				
    			
Read more 






Calendars to Chronicles: 6



Data Warehouses are Chronicles Business enterprises have a major challenge: making efficient and effective decisions all the time. This challenge can only be solved by knowing what the current situation in the organization is and what happened in the past… 



By Ramesh |
    				August 4, 2013 |
    				             		Experiential Computing, Technical Thoughts |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			
Read more 



« Previous
Next »











Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


