https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu






	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory









































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory








Chatbots
Sayme offers awareness of parallel work by informing developers of any emerging conflicts in real-time and helping them to resolve those conflicts.






KnoCap
KnoCap is a tool that we are developing to collect important design bits from developers’ conversations during whiteboard design meetings.








Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design.
 






Jul 1923
I-SURF students presented progress on their summer research projects with SDCL  


Knocap team
Chatbots team
 Posted in News by Adriana Meza Soria.
        Comments Off on I-SURF students presented progress on their summer research projects with SDCL


 

Jul 1923
SDCL lunch with I-SURF students  



As it has become a tradition in our lab, each summer, we enjoyed having lunch with our I-SURF fellows.
 Posted in News by Adriana Meza Soria.
        Comments Off on SDCL lunch with I-SURF students


 

Jul 1923
Design & Chatbots, SDCL lead researcher presenting for I-SURF 2019 summer program  




 Posted in News by Adriana Meza Soria.
        Comments Off on Design & Chatbots, SDCL lead researcher presenting for I-SURF 2019 summer program


 

May 1923
Exploring the unexplored in social software development platforms  


André – sharing his thoughts about hard problems in software engineering
On a sunny but slightly cool Friday in Irvine, lead researchers and their students gathered to present their current research pursuits, find common interests, and define future collaborations. 
We would like to express our gratitude to Debra Brodbeck (Assistant Director of ISR) and David Redmiles (ICS professor) for organizing and coordinating this workshop.
Tags: development, guests, platforms, Research, social, software, UCI, workshop Posted in News Workshop by David Kutas.
        Comments Off on Exploring the unexplored in social software development platforms


 

Mar 194
Lunch meeting with Consuelo Lopez  


From left to right: André, Adriana, Consuelo, Elahe.
A former student of SDCL, Consuelo Lopez, visited us today from Buenos Aires, Argentina. Consuelo shared her previous experiences as a graduate student, and provided valuable feedback to all SDCL members on their research projects. 
Tags: Former Student, Visit Posted in News by David Kutas.
        Comments Off on Lunch meeting with Consuelo Lopez


 

Jan 1911
Philip Guo visits SDCL  


Philip J. Guo, Assistant Professor of Cognitive Science UC San Diego visited SDCL. Adriana Meza Soria,  Ph.D. student in SDCL, presented her research project, Knocap.
Adriana introduces Knocap to Philip Guo.
 Posted in News by David Kutas.
        Comments Off on Philip Guo visits SDCL


 

Oct 1816
New SDCL members  


Professor Eduardo Santana de Almeida from Brazil is joining our lab for a year. Eduardo is an associate professor at Federal University of Bahia.  Learn more about him on his website: http://homes.dcc.ufba.br/~esa/

Eduardo in SDCL.
Tags: Lab Updates Posted in News by David Kutas.
        Comments Off on New SDCL members


 

Jul 1825
Marian Petre in collaboration with SDCL  


Marian Petre is a Professor at Open University in England. We are glad to welcome her to work with us one more time. Here a picture about Marian’s particular workstyle towards amazing creations!

Photograph taken by André van der Hoek
 Posted in Visit by Adriana Meza Soria.
        Comments Off on Marian Petre in collaboration with SDCL


 

Jul 1825
Adriana’s poster presentation at ICSE 2018  


Adriana, Software Engineering Ph.D. student in our lab, presented her poster Toward Collecting and Delivering Knowledge for Software Design at the Whiteboard for CHASE workshop at ICSE 2018.
 Photograph taken by André van der Hoek (thanks!)
 Posted in conference Travel by Adriana Meza Soria.
        Comments Off on Adriana’s poster presentation at ICSE 2018


 

Jun 172
Congratulations to Thomas Kwak!  


Thomas successfully defended his master’s thesis on improving mining performance for Internet code search engines!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Congratulations to Thomas Kwak!


 


Next Page »








Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In







