https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/2






	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory









































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory








Chatbots
Sayme offers awareness of parallel work by informing developers of any emerging conflicts in real-time and helping them to resolve those conflicts.






KnoCap
KnoCap is a tool that we are developing to collect important design bits from developers’ conversations during whiteboard design meetings.








Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design.
 






May 1622
Volunteering at ICSE 2016  


Consuelo* with other ICSE volunteers. Mission accomplished!

* standing third from left to right.
 Posted in conference by andre.
        Comments Off on Volunteering at ICSE 2016


 

May 1617
Consuelo’s ICSE-2016 presentation  


Consuelo presenting our research* on Crowd Design in ICSE crowdsourcing workshop (CSI-SE-2016).

 
* Toward Microtask Crowdsourcing Software Design Work
Authors: Edgar R.Q. Weidema, Consuelo López, Sahand Nayebaziz, Fernando Spanghero and André van der Hoek
 Photograph taken by Thomas La Toza (thanks!)
 Posted in conference Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on Consuelo’s ICSE-2016 presentation


 

May 1617
SDCL team in data science hackathon  


Thomas and Christian teamed up with undergraduate students Sreeja, Sid, and Chris to develop a tool that helps visualize mobility patterns of devices and apps on the city of New York. More about our project here: Tool wiki
Tired happy faces after coding for 28 hours straight.

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on SDCL team in data science hackathon


 

Apr 1628
Congratulations to Arturo Di Lecce!  


Arturo recently defended and passed his MS thesis in crowd development!

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Congratulations to Arturo Di Lecce!


 

Mar 1615
Affinity diagram session!  


We have just categorized a few dozen sketches produced by a crowd of designers.

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Affinity diagram session!


 

Mar 1611
Lee was awarded the IBM fellowship  


Lee Martie (5th year Ph.D. student) was awarded the IBM fellowship. The IBM Ph.D. Fellowship Awards Program is an intensely competitive worldwide program, which honors exceptional Ph.D. students who have an interest in solving problems that are important to IBM and fundamental to innovation in many academic disciplines and areas of study (more information can be found following this link: IBM Fellowship)
Congratulations Lee!
 
 
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Lee was awarded the IBM fellowship


 

Mar 166
Congratulations Dr. Gerald!  


Gerald Bortis defended and passed his PhD Thesis dissertation titled “PorchLight: A Tag-based Approach to Bug Triaging”. The defense took place last Friday and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Crista Lopes and James Jones.
Congratulations Dr. Gerald!


 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Congratulations Dr. Gerald!


 

Mar 162
Congratulations, Sara!  


Sara Triplett defended and passed her MS Thesis today. The tile of her talk was “Design Workspaces: Preserving and Recovering Meaning in Groups of Sketches” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Marian Petre and James Jones.
Congratulations Sara!

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Congratulations, Sara!


 

Feb 1625
Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams (again!)  


We redecorated the conference room!
We have just categorized around 250 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their second and latest experiment. It took 2h for a crowd of five people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work.

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams (again!)


 

Jan 1620
New Scholarship  


Congratulations to Consuelo López, who was recently granted the 2016 Miguel Velez scholarship.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on New Scholarship


 

« Previous Page
Next Page »








Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





