https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/3






	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory









































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory








Chatbots
Sayme offers awareness of parallel work by informing developers of any emerging conflicts in real-time and helping them to resolve those conflicts.






KnoCap
KnoCap is a tool that we are developing to collect important design bits from developers’ conversations during whiteboard design meetings.








Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design.
 






Jan 1620
Congratulations, Lee Martie!  


Lee Martie defended and passed his PhD Topic Proposal on Tuesday. The tile of his talk was “Supporting Iterative Internet-Scale Code Search” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Cristina Lopes and James Jones.
Congratulations Lee!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Congratulations, Lee Martie!


 

Dec 1512
SimSE  


A blast from the past.  SimSE, developed by one of the very first graduate students of SDCL – Emily Navarro, continues to be popular.  Check out some youtube videos of folks using it!

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on SimSE


 

Dec 159
Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams  


We have just categorized around 500 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their latest experiment. It took 3h for a crowd of six people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work.
 
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams


 

Nov 1517
Welcome Thomas Kwak!  


Thomas Kwak is a new UCI Masters student who will be joining the code search team to do his Masters thesis!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Thomas Kwak!


 

Nov 1515
SDCL at ASE 2015!  


Lee Martie at ASE 2015 presenting “CodeExchange: Supporting Reformulation of Internet-Scale Code Queries in Context”.  This was joint work between Lee Martie, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek.

 Posted in conference Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on SDCL at ASE 2015!


 

Nov 151
We wish Martin Medina well!  


We are glad to have had Martin and wish him well back home!

Martin and Lee were still hard at work on Martin’s last day… they started to look a little weird though.


 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on We wish Martin Medina well!


 

Jun 1515
Welcome Gabriel!  


Gabriel is an undergrad student who will be working on CrowdCode with Arturo, Fabio, and Thomas.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Gabriel!


 

Jun 1515
End of Quarter Lunch  


All together to celebrate the end of a very busy quarter .
Summer quarter is promising. Many projects going on and lab full of motivated people.

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on End of Quarter Lunch


 

Jun 159
Congratulations Thomas!  


Thomas accepted a tenure-track position as a Assistant Professor at the George Mason University.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Congratulations Thomas!


 

Jun 159
The SDCL in ICSE 2015  


Thomas presented two papers in ICSE [1][2] and co-organized the second International Workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSISE-2015)
André presented a position paper [3] and was part of the panel titled “The Future of Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering”.
[1] Borrowing from the crowd: A study of recombination in software design competitions, TD LaToza, M Chen, L Jiang, M Zhao, A van der Hoek
[2] A Vision of Crowd Development, TD LaToza, A van der Hoek
[3] A Brief Perspective on Microtask Crowdsourcing Workflows for Interface Design, M Zhao, A van der Hoek
 
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on The SDCL in ICSE 2015


 

« Previous Page
Next Page »








Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





