https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/4






	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory









































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory








Chatbots
Sayme offers awareness of parallel work by informing developers of any emerging conflicts in real-time and helping them to resolve those conflicts.






KnoCap
KnoCap is a tool that we are developing to collect important design bits from developers’ conversations during whiteboard design meetings.








Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design.
 






Jun 159
Welcome Iago and Nathan!  


Iago Moreira and Nathan Martins are joining us for the Summer.
Nathan has just finished his one year interchange program in North Dakota State University. Iago is half way through his program in Rochester Institute of Technology. They are both sponsored by the Brazilian Science without Borders program.
.. and they are already working with Christian on the new version of the Crowd Debug tool!
 
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Iago and Nathan!


 

May 1516
Lee’s MSR 2015 talk  


Lee has just presented his paper “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”.

 Posted in conference by andre.
        Comments Off on Lee’s MSR 2015 talk


 

Apr 1516
Welcome Edgar!  


Edgar is a new master student joining the lab. He is currently interested in investigating approaches to crowdsource software design.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Edgar!


 

Mar 1528
Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference  


“Racial Violence Archive: Public Information System on Incidents of Violence during the Civil Rights Period”
by Fernando Spanghero, Hosub Lee, Michael Bellato, Sowmya Jain,  Roeland Singer-heinze, Ya-Wen Lin, Sunakshi Gupta, and Geoff Ward. The faculty Sponsors were Alfred Kobsa and Geoff Ward.
Here’s a teaser: http://owl.li/KPXjN
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference


 

Mar 1519
Paper accepted in MSR-2015!  


Congratulations Lee!!
L. Martie and A. van der Hoek, “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”, Proceedings of the 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Paper accepted in MSR-2015!


 

Mar 1519
Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams?  


We have just categorized 441 comments Lee Martie collected in his latest experiment with CodeExchange. It took 1h15min for a crowd of nine people to do the job!








 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams?


 

Feb 159
We won the Reddit Hackathon!  


The competition happened on Jan 10th and is part of a new data science initiative aimed at coordinating UCI scientists who are working on various aspects of data science.
Our team was composed by Christian Adriano (SDCL), Vijay Palepu (Spider Lab), and Rianne Conijn (visitor Master student).

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on We won the Reddit Hackathon!


 

Feb 156
Welcome Fernando  


Welcome Fernando! 
Fernando Spanghero is a new master student joining our research group. His interested in software design, more specifically in developing sketching tools.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Fernando


 

Feb 156
Welcome Martín  


Welcome Martín! 
Martín Medina is a new master student joining our research group. He has work experience in software development and he will be working with Lee Martie in CodeExchange project.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Martín


 

Dec 145
Congrats Dr. Nick Lopez  


Congrats are in order to Nick Lopez, who just finished defending his Ph.D. dissertation on the impact of non-determinism of LDA in software engineering!
Afterwards, there was a post-defense celebratory lunch!

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Congrats Dr. Nick Lopez


 

« Previous Page
Next Page »








Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





