https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/5






	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory









































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory








Chatbots
Sayme offers awareness of parallel work by informing developers of any emerging conflicts in real-time and helping them to resolve those conflicts.






KnoCap
KnoCap is a tool that we are developing to collect important design bits from developers’ conversations during whiteboard design meetings.








Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design.
 






Nov 1420
Nick dissertation award!  


Nick Mangano receives his ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Dissertation Award at FSE 2014 in Hong Kong, and is supported by Lee and Thomas who are both there as well to present at the Context workshop.



 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Nick dissertation award!


 

Oct 1425
PLATEAU 2014  


Thomas visited rainy Portland to co-chair the Fifth Workshop on the Evaluation and Usability of Programming Languages and Tools at SPLASH 2014. There were many great talks on topics ranging from making programming more social through newsfeeds to an analysis of how race detection tools benefit developers. Josh Bloch, designer of the Java collections framework and author of Effective Java, gave an awesome keynote on the history of the API, including one of the most prescient two page papers ever written. New this year was a track for hypotheses papers, explicitly detailing the expecting practical usability implications of language features and tools on the practice of programming. For example, Jonathan Aldrich gave a retrospective of his work on programming language design for protocols, detailing hypotheses about its practical benefits for developers. The day concluded with some animated group brainstorming on the usability effects of types, program analysis, API documentation, and IDEs.


 Posted in Uncategorized by andre.
        Comments Off on PLATEAU 2014


 

Oct 148
UIST 2014  


Thomas attended UIST 2014 in Honolulu, presenting his paper on Microtask programming: building software with a crowd. There were a number of interesting papers related to programming tools and crowdsourcing.
SDCL also had an entry in the UIST 2014 Analog Fabrication Sandcastle Competition.

 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on UIST 2014


 

Oct 148
Welcome Consuelo  


Welcome Consuelo! 
Consuelo Lopez is a new master student joining our research group. She has work experience in software quality and she is currently interested in developing tools for software design.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Consuelo


 

Sep 1415
Welcome Arturo and Fabio  


Welcome Arturo Di Lecce and Fabio Ricci!
Arturo and Fabio join us from Politecnico di Milano in Italy, where they are currently masters students. They’ll be visiting SDCL in sunny California for the next year and will be working on projects related to crowd programming and crowd design.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Arturo and Fabio


 

Aug 1422
Thesis Defense Congratulations  


Micky and Lucy have graduated cum laude with their M.S. degrees from the University of Amsterdam.
The research they performed in SDCL uncovered interesting aspects of crowdsourcing software design.
We are hard at work on a paper summarizing their findings.

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Thesis Defense Congratulations


 

Aug 1412
CodeExchange – A new Java code search engine  


Program Java? Checkout CodeExchange, our new code search engine.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on CodeExchange – A new Java code search engine


 

Jul 1430
Crowd Programming featured on ACM TechNews  


Our work on Crowd Programming was also featured on ACM TechNews and Techwire.net.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Crowd Programming featured on ACM TechNews


 

Jul 1424
Press on Crowd Programming Grant  


Our work on crowd programming has been briefly featured in both the UC Irinve News and in Campus Technology.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Press on Crowd Programming Grant


 

Jul 1413
Welcome Gleiph  


We have a new member in SDCL – Gleiph Ghiotto.
Gleiph is a 3rd year PhD student from Fluminense Federal University. His advisor is professor Leonardo Murta. Gleiph will spend six months in our lab investigating merging and diffing approaches in open source repositories.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Gleiph


 

« Previous Page
Next Page »








Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





