https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/6






	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory









































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory








Chatbots
Sayme offers awareness of parallel work by informing developers of any emerging conflicts in real-time and helping them to resolve those conflicts.






KnoCap
KnoCap is a tool that we are developing to collect important design bits from developers’ conversations during whiteboard design meetings.








Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design.
 






Jul 147
Congratulations to the UC Irvine Design Competition Winners!  


Congratulations to Ulyana Skladchikova and Matias Giorgio, two of the winners in the UC Irvine Software Design Competition. Participants first produced a design – describing either a system’s architecture and design or its user experience – and were then given some of the designs produced by others, producing a second revised design incorporating insights they had learned from others. All of the designs were evaluated by a panel of experts, and we selected the best designs. Many of the designs were very strong, reflecting lots of hard work. Thanks to all who participated!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Congratulations to the UC Irvine Design Competition Winners!


 

Jun 1413
Grant on Crowd Programming  


We’re very happy to announce that the National Science Foundation has awarded SDCL a $1.4M grant to investigate the application of microtask crowdsourcing to programming.
More details in the official NSF announcement.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Grant on Crowd Programming


 

Jun 1413
ICSE 2014  



Two members of SDCL – André and Thomas – attended ICSE 2014 in Hyderabad, India. André served as a Program Chair of ICSE, helping to select the program of ICSE. Thomas served as an organizer of a new workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSI-SE). Both ICSE and CSI-SE went very well, and we had many great conversations with our colleagues.
Bonus: in the tradition of Where’s Waldo, where’s André? (hint: André is Dutch).
 Posted in conference Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on ICSE 2014


 

Jun 1413
Welcome Danilo and William  


We have two new members in SDCL for the summer:
Danilo is B.Sc. Student majoring in Computer Engineering at the Federal University of Sao Carlos, Brazil. He is a former exchange student at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign during Fall 2013 and Spring 2014. He will work with Christian on how to apply crowd sourcing methods to detect bugs on Java source codes.
William is an award winning (honorable mention in IEEE gamesig) Game Designer majoring in Computer Game Science at UC Irvine. He is currently pursuing an interest in developing software and games for emerging technologies, such as the Google Glass, the Oculus Rift, and the Verve. He will work with Lee and Mengyao on the Google Glass project.
Welcome Danilo and William!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Danilo and William


 

May 1418
Meet the SDCL Beowulf Cluster  


We needed to do some serious data mining on a budget, so we built a 45 Raspberry Pi Beowulf cluster.  It’s working great and is a welcomed member of the lab :).

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Meet the SDCL Beowulf Cluster


 

May 1416
SCALE meeting at UC Irvine  


UC Irvine hosted a meeting of the SCALE research group. SDCL had posters on several research projects. Lots of great discussion!

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on SCALE meeting at UC Irvine


 

Apr 1429
CHI2014  


Nick Mangano and Mengyao Zhao went to CHI this year in Toronto. Nick gave a talk on Calico called “Supporting Informal Design with Interactive Whiteboards”. Mengyao presented a paper called “A Doodled Us: A Design Case Study On Urban Collaborative Art With Arduino” at the Socially Engaged Art Practice in HCI workshop.


 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on CHI2014


 

Apr 1429
Won 2nd Place in 2014 Annual Autism Appjam  


Mengyao’s team (group with Kate Ringland, Oliver Haimson, Nathan Major and Kalyda Tokhi), DanceCraft, won 2nd place and the Social Media Award in the 2014 annual autism appjam. Check more information about the project here: http://dancecraftforautism.wordpress.com/

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Won 2nd Place in 2014 Annual Autism Appjam


 

Apr 1417
Visit to MobileWorks  


Thomas gave on a talk on microtask programming at MobileWorks with plenty of great discussion and feedback!
Before the talk:

 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on Visit to MobileWorks


 

Apr 148
Visitors from The Netherlands  


Luxi and Micky are master students from the University of Amsterdam. They will spend four months with us researching how to crowdsource software design activities. Welcome!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Visitors from The Netherlands


 

« Previous Page
Next Page »








Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





