https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/7






	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory









































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory








Chatbots
Sayme offers awareness of parallel work by informing developers of any emerging conflicts in real-time and helping them to resolve those conflicts.






KnoCap
KnoCap is a tool that we are developing to collect important design bits from developers’ conversations during whiteboard design meetings.








Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design.
 






Apr 141
Tablet tower to server tower  


What do you do when you need to do a lot of parallel data processing but cloud services are just too expensive?  Turn your lab’s tablets into servers, of course!

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Tablet tower to server tower


 

Mar 1430
Marian Petre visit  


Our long-term collaborator Marian Petre from The Open University visited us last week. Her insights are always much appreciated and we already look forward to her next visit!


 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Marian Petre visit


 

Feb 143
Welcome Mengyao and John  


Mengyao is a first year Ph.D. student in Informatics. She is interested in doing research in design practice, more specifically the creative nature of it.
John is a first year M.S. student in Computer Science. He is interested in doing research in software architecture,  particularly the field of software as a service (SaaS).
Welcome!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Mengyao and John


 

Feb 143
New Scholarships  


Congratulations to Nick Lopez and Christian Adriano, who were recently granted the 2014 Miguel Velez scholarship.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on New Scholarships


 

Dec 138
Visit to MobileWorks  


Thomas visited MobileWorks, a Berkeley based startup providing a platform for microtask crowdsourcing. Thomas gave a demo of CrowdCode and had a great discussion!
 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on Visit to MobileWorks


 

Dec 138
New workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering  


Thomas is co-organizing a new workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSI-SE), in conjunction with ICSE 2014. The workshop will be a one day event with invited talks, a poster and demos session, and a crowd-based working session giving participants the opportunity to explore the application of crowdsourcing to software engineering and begin to forge collaborations.
More details to appear soon on the CSI-SE website.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on New workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering


 

Dec 138
Paper on Calico to appear at CHI 2014!  


Our paper, Supporting Informal Design with Interactive Whiteboards, was accepted for inclusion at CHI 2014! Hope to see you in Toronto!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Paper on Calico to appear at CHI 2014!


 

Nov 1320
2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists  


André was recognized as one of the 2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists. A big congratulations to André!
ACM announcement
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on 2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists


 

Oct 1323
Visit to GE Research  


SDCL visited GE Research labs in San Ramon. We presented our recent work on software design collaboration and crowd coding. We also had the opportunity to discuss interesting industry challenges in the fields of user experience and collaboration technology.
We kindly thank Roberto Silveira for all the awesome meetings we had with his research peers.
 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on Visit to GE Research


 

Oct 1323
CrowdConf 2013  


 

Thomas La Toza and Christian Adriano have just attended CrowdConf. We received very interesting feedback on our CrowdCode platform. We also had extremely engaging conversations with people working on challenging crowdsourcing problems.
 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on CrowdConf 2013


 

« Previous Page
Next Page »








Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





