https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/8






	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory









































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory








Chatbots
Sayme offers awareness of parallel work by informing developers of any emerging conflicts in real-time and helping them to resolve those conflicts.






KnoCap
KnoCap is a tool that we are developing to collect important design bits from developers’ conversations during whiteboard design meetings.








Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design.
 






Oct 139
SCALE at IBM’s T.J. Watson Research Center  


The SDCL just attended the SCALE conference at IBM’s T.J. Watson Research Center.
There we had the great opportunity to share our current work on on crowd development,
crowd debugging, and social-technical code search.  We also had the privilege to
hear interesting talks  and have engaging discussion by and with IBMers and other SCALE members.
From left to right: Thomas LaToza, Lee Martie, and Christian Adriano
 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on SCALE at IBM’s T.J. Watson Research Center


 

Oct 131
Article published in Empirical Software Engineering Journal  


Looking to evaluate a software engineering tool in a study with developers? Check out our new ESE journal article for options, standard practices, and tradeoffs, grounded in a literature review of over 1700 software engineering papers. article
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Article published in Empirical Software Engineering Journal


 

Sep 1329
Welcome Namrata!  


We are very excited to welcome Namrata Puri to the laboratory. She is joining us as a new M.S. student and will be working on the UI of CodeExchange.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Namrata!


 

Sep 1318
Congrats Dr. Nick!  


Congratulations to Nick Mangano, who successfully defended his Ph.D. dissertation entitled ‘Calico: an early-phase software design tool’ on September 18, with a committee of Gary Olson, David Redmiles, and Marian Petre (in addition to his advisor, of course).  After 6 years of very hard work, Nick is now off to make a commercial version of Calico that we hope will be a smashing success!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Congrats Dr. Nick!


 

Sep 1311
CrowdCode at CrowdConf  


Our abstract, CrowdCode: A platform for crowd development, was selected for both a poster and a talk at CrowdConf! Hope to see you in San Francisco.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on CrowdCode at CrowdConf


 

Jul 1323
FuSE 2013  


We attended the FuSE 2013 conference at Microsoft Research! Lots of interesting talks and engaging discussions on the future of software engineering.
 
From left to right - Ankita, Chris, Hitesh, and Lee
 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on FuSE 2013


 

May 1330
ISR Research Forum  


SDCL is excited to welcome visitors to our lab for the ISR Research Forum. We have demos lined up of several of our research projects and are looking forward to exchanging ideas with both fellow researchers and developers from industry. If you’re in Irvine, we hope to see you there!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on ISR Research Forum


 

May 1324
ICSE 2013  


Six members of the SDCL, Gerald Bortis, Lee Martie, Christian Adriano, Nicolas Lopez, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek, as well as one of our alumni, Alfredo Motta, attended ICSE 2013. We presented papers and posters in a variety of the tracks and subevents, and had great conversations with our colleagues.
 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on ICSE 2013


 

May 1317
Lionel Briand visit  


Lionel Briand visited the SDCL as part of his visit as an ISR Distinguished Speaker. Once more, we had great interactions and discussions about our research.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Lionel Briand visit


 

Apr 1319
Jane Cleland-Huang visit  


Another ISR Distinguished Speaker, another visitor to the SDCL.  Jane Cleland-Huang from DePaul University visited our lab.  She provided some great feedback on our research!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Jane Cleland-Huang visit


 

« Previous Page
Next Page »








Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





