https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/9






	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory









































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory








Chatbots
Sayme offers awareness of parallel work by informing developers of any emerging conflicts in real-time and helping them to resolve those conflicts.






KnoCap
KnoCap is a tool that we are developing to collect important design bits from developers’ conversations during whiteboard design meetings.








Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design.
 






Apr 131
SCALE meeting in snowy Pittsburgh  


Several SDCL members attended the SCALE meeting in Pittsburgh, presenting work in progress talks on crowd development, crowd debugging, social-technical code search, and topic mining. And we also had an opportunity to practice our snowball throwing skills.

 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on SCALE meeting in snowy Pittsburgh


 

Mar 1314
Arie van Deursen visit  


We had a great time hosting Arie van Deursen from TU Delft in the Netherlands.  We had a long demo session during which we provided us with some great feedback, and he gave a great talk as part of the ISR Distinguished Speaker series.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Arie van Deursen visit


 

Feb 1328
SDCL ICSE Papers  


SDCL will be presenting the following papers at ICSE 2013:
Research track
PorchLight: A Tag-Based Approach to Bug Triaging
Gerald Bortis and Andre van der Hoek
Education track
Enabling a Classroom Design Studio with a Collaborative Sketch Design Tool
Dastyni Loksa, Nicolas Mangano, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek
MISE Workshop
Light-weight Analysis of Software Design Models at the Whiteboard
Alfredo Motta, Nicolas Mangano, Andre van der Hoek
CHASE Workshop
Toward Social-Technical Code Search
Lee Martie and André van der Hoek
Crowd Development
Thomas D. LaToza, W. Ben Towne, André van der Hoek, James D. Herblseb
A Study of Architectural Decision Practices
Thomas D. LaToza, Evelina Shabani, André van der Hoek
See you in San Francisco!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on SDCL ICSE Papers


 

Dec 1225
Michele thanks  


Michele Bonazza is now back in Italy to complete his Ph.D. program there. Time has gone very fast and we have had a great time.  Look toward CaliSmall, a standalone adaptation of Calico for Android tablets, to hopefully appear in the Google Play store soon…
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Michele thanks


 

Dec 1212
Marian Petre visit  


Our long-term collaborator Marian Petre from The Open University visited us for this week, working on finalizing a book to be published out of the SPSD 2010 workshop (it is almost done!), and providing us with feedback on Nick Mangano’s work on analyzing sketches on whiteboards.  Her insights are always much appreciated and we already look forward to her next visit!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Marian Petre visit


 

Dec 124
PorchLight ICSE paper!  


Congrats to Gerald Bortis for the ICSE acceptance of his paper on PorchLight!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on PorchLight ICSE paper!


 

Nov 1218
Affinity diagramming  


We had a lot of fun grouping the results of Evelina’s and Thomas’ interviews. Nick Mangano suggested an indexation. Nick Lopez came up with many labels (topics?) to one note. Michele complained about so much meta-data. Lee suggested a group for the “unrelated”. Since the sticky notes moved all over the walls, the outcome looks promising. More work to do!

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Affinity diagramming


 

Oct 1220
Welcome Sergio!  


Our group continues to grow!  We are very excited to welcome Sergio Villaverde Herrera to the laboratory.  He is joining us for the year as an education abroad student from the University of Granada, Spain, and is exploring building a scalable server side to Calico (scalable to many many users).
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Sergio!


 

Oct 1218
Groupwork on tablets  


Michele – looking amused at the funny cat pictures we found while restoring some images from the tablets (sometimes, servers crash and important work is almost lost…).

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Groupwork on tablets


 

Sep 1211
SDCL has moved  


The SDCL has moved!  Our new space is in ICS1, room 414 (see our directions page).  Come visit us in our new space for a tour (and demos, as always!).  

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on SDCL has moved


 

« Previous Page
Next Page »








Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





