https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/10






	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory









































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory








Chatbots
Sayme offers awareness of parallel work by informing developers of any emerging conflicts in real-time and helping them to resolve those conflicts.






KnoCap
KnoCap is a tool that we are developing to collect important design bits from developers’ conversations during whiteboard design meetings.








Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design.
 






Sep 1211
SCALE meeting in Nebraska  


Four SDCL members visited Lincoln, NE for the SCALE meeting, joining collaborators at Carnegie Mellon and UNL in the cornfields. SDCL presented work on several ongoing projects including crowdsourced programming, tagging code, and triaging bugs. Andre gave a talk surveying the past, present, and future of SDCL. And we discussed ways of further involving industry partners in our work.
 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on SCALE meeting in Nebraska


 

Sep 1211
Welcome Michele!  


We are very excited to welcome Michele Bonazza to the laboratory. He is joining us for four months as a visitor from the University of Padova, Italy, and will be developing an Android version of Calico (!)
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Michele!


 

Sep 1211
Welcome Christian!  


We are very excited to welcome Christian Adriano to the laboratory. He is joining us as a new Ph.D. student from Sao Paolo, Brazil.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Christian!


 

Jun 122
ICSE 2012  


Four members of the SDCL, Lee Martie, Alfredo Motta, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek, will attend ICSE 2012.  Lee will present in the MSR Challenge, Alfredo in the Doctoral Symposium, and Thomas in the ICSE main research track.
 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on ICSE 2012


 

May 1218
ISR Research Forum  


The SDCL was an active participant in the ISR Research Forum, with numerous demos given during the open house and lots of good connections being made.  All in all a fun day, especially with the great feedback we received on our projects.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on ISR Research Forum


 

Apr 1216
Brazilian collaborators visit  


SDCL friends Claudia Werner, Leo Murta, and Marcelo Schots visit us from UFRJ in Rio and UFF in Niteroi this week, exchanging research ideas, exploring collaborations, and working on a joint paper.

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Brazilian collaborators visit


 

Apr 122
Welcome Alfredo Motta  


We welcome Alfredo Motta to our lab; Alfredo is visiting us for four months from Politecnico di Milano, and is exploring how designers can be assisted with feedback about their designs in progress.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Alfredo Motta


 

Mar 1231
Papers accepted  


Congrats to Lee Martie for getting a paper accepted in the MSR 2012 Challenge track, and Nick Mangano for getting a paper accepted in JASE [link].  Well done!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Papers accepted


 

Mar 1231
Marian Petre visit  


Marian Petre from The Open University visited us for this week, working on a book to be published out of the SPSD 2010 workshop and generally giving us feedback on all of our projects.

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Marian Petre visit


 

Mar 127
Welcome Thomas LaToza  


We are very excited to welcome Thomas LaToza to the laboratory. He will be joining us this Fall from CMU, where he just completed his Ph.D. (congrats!).
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Welcome Thomas LaToza


 

« Previous Page
Next Page »








Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





