http://www.ics.uci.edu/~stasio/winter06/crf.html


ICS 22H: Honors Introduction to CS (II)

 ICS 22H: Honors Introduction to Computer Science 
				(II)
Winter Quarter, 2006



			Instructor: Stanislaw Jarecki,  
			358B Computer Science, office phone 824-8878, email:  
				stasio@ics.uci.edu; Office Hours: TR 3-4PM, but please email me or 
				call me first!
		
TA: Xiaomin Liu , CalIT 
			building, room 2410 (?), office phone TBA, email: 
				xiaominl@ics.uci.edu; Office Hours: room 127, ICS Trailers (Building 313 on the campus 
map)), 1:30-2:30 MW. However, only if you email her beforehand.

Class meeting time and place: 


				Lectures:  Tu-Th, 11-12:20, CS 243  
  

Discussion Section(s):  W-F,  10-10:50 in 
  CS 243

Supervised Lab Time:  W-F, 11-11:50 in CS 189 (lab) 
  
Class web site:  
				http://www.ics.uci.edu/~stasio/winter06/ics22H.html

			Prerequisites:    pretty good grade in ICS.21H, 
			very good grade in ICS.21, advanced placement, or permission of the instructor

			Textbook: Data Structures and Algorithms in 
					Java, 4th edition., by Michael Goodrich and Roberto Tamassia. 

Email list for sending questions to the 
Instructor and the TA (e.g. on homework assignments, lab assignments, other 
class material): h22-questions@ics.uci.edu. 



Class Organization
(1) Lectures:   There will be two lectures a 
			week.  You are responsible for anything said in class, including class 
			announcements. If you have to miss lecture for any reason, please ask one of 
			your classmates to fill you in on what you missed.
(2) Discussions:  The TA will hold two discussion sections 
			a week.  The discussion sections are optional and should be interactive.
(3) Lab:   There are also 2 hours of supervised lab 
			time following the discussion sections. During this time, you have priority 
			over other students in the lab. Note, however, you only have priority over 
			other students if you are working on class work (i.e. not playing games). Our 
			TA will be available in the lab during these times to answer questions. This is 
			an ideal opportunity to get some help with your lab homework in front of a 
			computer.
		
There are several department labs which you can use for working on your lab 
			assignments. Information about the locations and hours of the labs can be found 
			at http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lab. If 
			you are experiencing difficulties in the lab with the equipment, let the lab 
			attendant know. If they can not solve the problem, they will contact support.
		
Lab Assignments
Each new lab assignment will be made available 
			by Wednesday morning through the class home page. An electronic copy 
			of the lab will be due the following Wednesday at midnight.   
			Separate handout
			talks about starting up and submitting the lab assignments.
		
No late lab assignments will be accepted. For this reason, I recommend that you 
			get started on your assignment early in case of unexpected delays. In 
			particular, you should read through the lab assignment on the day that it is 
			given and make sure that you understand the instructions.
		

			Xiaomin will grade the lab assignments. If you have questions about your score, 
			please see her during her office hours.
Quizes
You might have heard about weekly quizzes in this class, but this quarter we'll 
			run it differently and there'll be no quizzes but a midterm and a greater 
			emphasis on homeworks.
		
Homework Assignments
 There is a weekly written homework assignment that 
				will be due Friday, at the beginning of the discussion 
				section.
Grading Policy

			Lab assignments 30%
			Homeworks 30%
			Midterm 20%
			Final 20%

Academic Dishonesty
I encourage you to discuss your lab and homework assignments informally with 
			your classmates. However, it is critical that when you write up your homework 
			or sit at the computer to write your programs that you do so without 
			assistance. This is the only way to ensure that it is your own work. Group 
			work, sharing code, or copying the homework assignments, is a violation of the 
				honesty policy of the School of Information and Computer Science and 
			UC Irvine.  You are expected to be familiar with these policies. They can 
			be found at 
				http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ucounsel/continuing_students/policies.html.
		
Any violation of these policies result in a letter describing the incident which 
			is placed in your file on campus. Since abiding by the the honesty policies is 
			an academic requirement of this course, failure to do so will typically result 
			in an F in the course. Very severe incidents of academic dishonesty can result 
			in suspension or expulsion from the university (and this is the case in all 
			other classes you take at UCI).


