https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/11






	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory









































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory








Chatbots
Sayme offers awareness of parallel work by informing developers of any emerging conflicts in real-time and helping them to resolve those conflicts.






KnoCap
KnoCap is a tool that we are developing to collect important design bits from developers’ conversations during whiteboard design meetings.








Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design.
 






Mar 122
SDCL hosts SCALE  


Yesterday and today, the SDCL hosted the SCALE meeting for our collaborative grant with CMU and UNL.  Fourteen students presented their work and received feedback from the group as a whole, with various new ideas and joint projects emerging.

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on SDCL hosts SCALE


 

Feb 1212
Calico demo available  


A demo of Calico is now available. Please visit the Calico research page, then scroll to the Demo section for details.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Calico demo available


 

Feb 1212
Calico @ CSCW 2012  


We’re happy to announce that our video of Calico will be showing at CSCW this Wednesday.  All CSCW attendees are welcome to see ours and many other wonderful research videos during the CSCW Videos Session, which starts at 11am. 
 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on Calico @ CSCW 2012


 

Dec 1115
SDCL on GitHub  


 
We are pleased to announce that Calico’s and Lighthouse’s repositories have been moved to SDCL’s new GitHub account!
 
   
We are pleased to announce that Calico (http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/research/calico) and Lighthouse (http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/research/lighthouse) are now on GitHub (https://github.com/uci-sdcl/lighthouse) !

We are pleased to announce that Calico (http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/research/calico) and Lighthouse (http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/research/lighthouse) are now on GitHub (https://github.com/uci-sdcl/lighthouse) !

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on SDCL on GitHub


 

Nov 119
SEWORLD @ SDCL  


The SDCL is now in charge of moderating and administrating the ACM SIGSOFT SEWORLD mailing list.  The mailing list, started over 15 years ago at the University of Colorado at Boulder, serves the Software Engineering community through the dissemination of time-sensitive information relevant to the field of software engineering research (http://www.sigsoft.org/seworld/). We are very exited to be able to support the Software Engineering community in this role!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on SEWORLD @ SDCL


 

Oct 1122
Visiting Google  


We had a fun visit to Google, discussing possible directions for Calico with some SDCL’s former members who now work there.  Thanks Ping, Chris, Eugen, and Chris!
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Visiting Google


 

Sep 1121
Grant kickoff meeting  


We traveled to Pittsburgh for the kickoff meeting of our new grant titled “Large-Scale Human-Centered Coordination Systems to Support Interdependent Tasks in Context”, together with members of the  CRADL group and the  Interaction Design and Coordination Lab, visiting our partners at CMU.
		









 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on Grant kickoff meeting


 

Aug 1125
Another NSF grant  


We are delighted to announce that the NSF has awarded the SDCL a 2011 IIS grant in support of our work on distributed collaboration; the grant is entitled “Large-Scale Human-Centered Coordination Systems to Support Interdependent Tasks in Context ” and is joint work with Jim Herbsleb, Laura Dabbish, and Linda Argote at Carnegie Mellon University, former SDCL member Anita Sarma at the University of Lincoln – Nebraska, and, here at UC Irvine, David Redmiles.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Another NSF grant


 

Aug 1122
New tablets!  


Our purchase of 21 new ASUS EEE EP121 tablets has arrived! These tablets are great, and Nick already got to try them out when the Brea Olinda Global IT Academy students visited our department today.

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on New tablets!


 

Aug 116
NSF grant for Calico  


We are delighted to announce that the NSF has awarded the SDCL a 2011 CCF grant in support of our work on Calico; the grant is entitled “Software Design Sketching”.
 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on NSF grant for Calico


 

« Previous Page
Next Page »








Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





