https://ngs.ics.uci.edu/author/ramesh/page/234








Ramesh – Page 234 – Ramesh Jain




























 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



Back to blogs



I am here exactly one week after I wrote my blogs last time. Suzi, THANKS for keeping all important and relevant information coming to people.  I noted that you were very thorough in providing important details.  I really appreciate your… 



By Ramesh |
    				May 26, 2004 |
    				             		General Updates |
             	 
    				             		5 Comments |
             	 		          				
    			
Read more 






Staples removed


Dad continues his good progress.?Today they removed more of his tubes.?They also removed the 32 staples that ran from his midchest to his belly button.?This looked very painful, but Dad handled it very well.?Today Dad also ate solid (well, somewhat solid) food for the first time.?He had 2 bites of mashed potatoes and gravy, and 3 bites of soup.?He said that the mashed potatoes actually tasted worse than some of the medicine.?I guess he’s getting back to normal if he is complaining and making jokes!?It was nice to see him eating something, and sitting up for a while, and watching basketball.?Lucikly the Pistons won tonight.?He walked around quite a bit today.?We got some more good news today – that the biopsies of the lymph nodes were negative.?The blood clot in Dad’s arm has disappeared, but the one in his leg is still there.?He says that very soon, he will be back to writing his own blogs!







Making progress!


Dad continues to make good progress.?Every day he walks a little more and talks a little more.  He has a room on the top floor (4th) of the hospital, with a beautiful view of the Torrey Pines golf course and the ocean.?He is now able to enjoy the view a little, and has started to watch basketball.?Unfortunately the Pistons lost last night!?Hopefully they will do better tomorrow.?Overall, things are progressing well.?






Strength


Today Dad moved out of the ICU into another wing of the hospital.?He walked around for quite a while longer than yesterday.?The fever has disappeared.?Dad was exhausted after the walking and moving and slept quite a bit.?They have removed some of the tubes from his facial area, and he is no longer on oxygen.?So far, things are progressing well.?Both Mom and Dad’s handling of all of this has been amazing.?Their strength – physically, mentally, and emotionally, is inspirational to the rest of us.?It is what keeps us going.?Today is Mom and Dad’s wedding anniversary.  We are so lucky to have such wonderful, loving parents and cannot wait until Dad is better!?Thanks to everyone for their continued support and prayers.






recovery begins



Today Dad looked better. I was shocked to walk into his room in the ICU and see him sitting up in a chair. The doctors wanted him to start moving around and walking right away. This is to jump-start his recovery, and also to get rid of some fluid that had built up in his lungs. According to the nurse, this is a normal occurrence after surgery. He walked for a few steps, and sat up in a chair for a while. He was talking a little, but still doped up. He was sleeping on and off throughout the day. In the evenig, Dad developed a fever, which they said is also normal. He was pretty exhausted from taking those few steps and sitting for a while. He still has wires and tubes coming out from all over his body. It took about half an hour to rearrange the wires so Dad could walk around a little. Dad has developed a blood clot in his foot, which they can’t really treat until he recuperates a little. They do have some sort of massaging device they put on his leg to keep the blood flowing, I believe. Overall, Dad is doing well. They were talking about moving him out of the ICU tomorrow. I will keep everyone posted. Thank you all for your continued thoughts, kind words and prayers. 




« Previous
Next »











Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


