https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/12






	Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory









































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory








Chatbots
Sayme offers awareness of parallel work by informing developers of any emerging conflicts in real-time and helping them to resolve those conflicts.






KnoCap
KnoCap is a tool that we are developing to collect important design bits from developers’ conversations during whiteboard design meetings.








Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design.
 






Jul 1118
Microsoft Faculty Summit  


André van der Hoek is attending the Microsoft Faculty Summit.
 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on Microsoft Faculty Summit


 

Jun 1119
HCIC 2011  


Nick Mangano attended HCIC 2011 this past week, learning more about the HCI community and its research methods in an intimate setting.
 Posted in Travel by andre.
        Comments Off on HCIC 2011


 

Jun 1112
Graduates!  


Congratulations to Nilmax Moura (M.S.), Robert Simpson (B.S.), and Danielle Song (B.S.).  We will miss their contributions and presence in our lab!

       

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Graduates!


 

Jun 1110
Brazilian collaborators  


Claudia Werner and Chessman Correa from UFRJ and Leo Murta from UFF visited us for a day on their way to South Korea.

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on Brazilian collaborators


 

Apr 1122
ARCS dinner  


Nick Mangano presents Calico at the annual celebration of ARCS scholarship recipients. Nick is the third SDCL member to receive an ARCS scholarship.

 Posted in News by andre.
        Comments Off on ARCS dinner


 

Apr 1118
Microsoft SEIF Award  


We are proud to announce that Microsoft has awarded the SDCL a Microsoft Software Engineering Innovation Foundation Award in support of our work on Calico.
 Posted in News by andre.
        No Comments


 

Apr 1118
Welcome Lee Martie  


We are very excited to welcome Lee Martie to the laboratory. He will be joining us this Fall from the Design Intelligence Laboratory at Georgia Tech, where he worked on the GAIA project.
 Posted in News by andre.
        No Comments


 

Apr 1116
ICSE 2011  


Four members of the SDCL, Nick Mangano, Nicolas Lopez, Gerald Bortis, and André van der Hoek, will attend ICSE 2011, to present our work on Calico, the Code Orb, and TeamBugs.
 Posted in Travel by andre.
        No Comments


 

« Previous Page









Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





