https://cml.ics.uci.edu/books





Books | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

































Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine






Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
University of California, Irvine


Menu
Skip to content
Home
About CML

About us
News
Contact Us


People

Faculty
Alumni


Events & Seminars

AI/ML Seminar Series
AI/ML Seminar Live Stream
CML Distinguished Speakers
ML Reading Group


Education & Resources

Courses
Books


UCI Machine Learning Archive
Sponsors & Funding
Subscribe to CML List
 





Books 





Constraint Processing
Rina Dechter
Morgan Kauffman 

“This book provides a comprehensive and much needed introduction to the field by one of its foremost experts. It is beautifully written and presents a unifying framework capturing a wide range of techniques for processing symbolic, numerical, and probabilistic information.” 
–Bart Selman, Cornell University







Modeling the Internet and the Web. Probabilistic Methods and Algorithms
Pierre Baldi, Paolo Frasconi, and Padhraic Smyth
Wiley 

“This book provides an extremely useful introduction to the intellectually stimulating problems of data mining electronic business.”
— Andreas S. Weigend (Chief Scientist, Amazon.com)







Bioinformatics: the Machine Learning Approach (2nd ed.)
Pierre Baldi and Søren Brunak
MIT Press

“This is a very good book, written with a high level of erudition and insight.”
— Gustavo A. Stolovitzky, Physics Today 







Principles of Data Mining (Adaptive Computation and Machine Learning)
David J. Hand, Heikki Mannila, and Padhraic Smyth
MIT Press

“Principles of Data Mining is a well-thought-out lucid introduction to data mining principles and techniques that is a pleasure to read. It would be a worthy addition to your bookshelf.”
–Ashish P. Sanil, National Institute of Statistical Sciences, from the Journal of the American Statistical Association







Bayesian Data Analysis
Andrew Gelman, John B. Carlin, Hal S. Stern, and Donald B. Rubin
CRC Press 

“Bayesian Data Analysis is easily the most comprehensive, scholarly, and thoughtful book on the subject, and I think will do much to promote the use of Bayesian methods.”
–Prof. David Blackwell, Department of Statistics, University of California, Berkeley







The Shattered Self – The End of Natural Evolution
Pierre Baldi
MIT Press 

“What we will become remains intriguing and ominous, making this probing book a valuable contribution to thinking about our future.” 
— Steven R. Quartz, American Scientist







DNA Microarrays and Gene Regulation
Pierre Baldi and G. Wesley Hatfield
Cambridge University Press

“Writing a book such as this was a challenging remit and one that the authors have achieved with great success.”
— Human Genomics







Reasoning with Probabilistic and Deterministic Graphical Models: Exact Algorithms
Rina Dechter
Morgan & Claypool










 
Search



 


(c) 2015 Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

WordPress/BonPress






