https://cml.ics.uci.edu/home/contact-us





Contact Us | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
































Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine






Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
University of California, Irvine


Menu
Skip to content
Home
About CML

About us
News
Contact Us


People

Faculty
Alumni


Events & Seminars

AI/ML Seminar Series
AI/ML Seminar Live Stream
CML Distinguished Speakers
ML Reading Group


Education & Resources

Courses
Books


UCI Machine Learning Archive
Sponsors & Funding
Subscribe to CML List
 





Contact Us 


Address
Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
Department of Computer Science
University of California, Irvine
Irvine, California 92697-3445
Phone: (949) 824-9296
Fax:     (949) 824-9813
Email:   cmlis@ics.uci.edu

Location
CML is located in Donald Bren Hall.  The nearest parking lot is 12B, although it is typically easier to park at the Anteater Parking Structure, at the corner of Anteater and E. Peltason Dr.
Meetings and lectures are typically held in one of these locations:
DBH 4011 (bldg. 314)
DBH 6011 (bldg. 314)
DBH 4013 (bldg. 314)
McDonnell Douglas Auditorium (bldg. 311)
Calit2 3008 (bldg. 325)
University Club (bldg. 801)

Maps
A campus map is available here (pdf).

This map shows the location of Bren Hall, the Anteater Parking Structure, and Lot 12B.
Additional maps of the area around the Center and ICS are also available, with general directions.

Directions and Parking
You need a parking permit to park at UC Irvine. Currently there are parking permit dispensers only at some entrances to UC Irvine; these are indicated by a star on the campus map.  The Lot 16 dispenser off of Bison Avenue is closest to the ICS area.
Please note that due to extensive construction projects currently underway around the ICS area, some parking lots, or streets may be out of commission at times.  It is always a good idea to call us first and verify that the directions and parking information given below is still in effect at the time of your visit.
These directions bring you onto campus via one of these entrances:
From North: Take the 405 South. Exit on Jamboree Rd. Go right onto Jamboree Rd. Go left onto Campus Drive. Go past WEST Peltason Drive, and under the pedestrian bridge. Go right at the next lighted intersection, onto EAST Peltason Drive, which takes you into UC Irvine.
From South: Take the 405 North. Exit on University/Jeffrey. Go left onto University. Go left onto Culver. Go right onto Campus Drive. Go left at EAST Peltason Drive, which takes you into UC Irvine.
Permit: Pull over immediately at the automated dispenser (designated by a star on the campus map) to purchase a permit. Permits cost $1 per hour, up to $7 per day. The machines accept quarters and $1 bills. Proceed forward through the lighted intersection (at Pereira) and then under the green pedestrian bridge. From any direction on EAST Peltason, turn onto S. Circle View Road.  This will bring you to the entrance of Lot 12B.  Take the right fork at the stop sign and proceed to the rear portion of the lot and park in any unmarked space.
Note: If you are attending a meeting at the University Club (UClub), you do not need a parking permit. Park in the UClub parking lot, 18B, which is adjacent to lot 12B.





 
Search



 


(c) 2015 Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

WordPress/BonPress
























