https://cml.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/2





News | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems | Page 2





























Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine






Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
University of California, Irvine


Menu
Skip to content
Home
About CML

About us
News
Contact Us


People

Faculty
Alumni


Events & Seminars

AI/ML Seminar Series
AI/ML Seminar Live Stream
CML Distinguished Speakers
ML Reading Group


Education & Resources

Courses
Books


UCI Machine Learning Archive
Sponsors & Funding
Subscribe to CML List
 





News 





Research funding from Qualcomm AI/ML Research Labs Standard 

Qualcomm Inc. has provided gift funding of $255,000 to Computer Science Professors Charless Fowlkes, Stephan Mandt and Padhraic Smyth. This funding will support Ph.D. students involved in basic research projects across the three groups on topics related to the development of new theories and algorithms in the areas of computer vision and machine learning.  
The funded projects will involve collaborations with Qualcomm’s rapidly expanding research and development work in artificial intelligence, with a particular focus on Qualcomm AI/ML research labs in San Diego and Amsterdam.


September 30, 2019






UCI group develops deep learning approach for Rubik’s cube Image 


Professor Pierre Baldi, with PhD students Forest Agostinelli and Stephen McAleer, and senior Alexander Shmakov, have developed a deep reinforcement learning approach to solve Rubik’s cube problems, solving typical problems in about 20 moves. The work was published in Nature Machine Intelligence.   


September 30, 2019






Faculty Positions at UC Irvine Standard 

Faculty Positions at UC Irvine
Application deadline: Jan 15th, 2019 (Applications received by January 1, 2019 will receive fullest consideration.)
Apply online at:  https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF04950
The Department of Computer Science in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) at the University of California, Irvine (UCI) invites applications for multiple tenure-track assistant professor or tenured associate/full professor positions beginning July 1, 2019. The Department is interested in individuals with research interests in all aspects of algorithms, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and theory of computing. One opening is targeted at individuals whose computer science expertise aligns with the growing UCI Data Science Initiative.


October 12, 2018






Two new NSF awards in Machine Learning for Sameer Singh Standard 

Congratulations to Professor Sameer Singh for receiving two multi-year research awards from the National Science Foundation (NSF). Under the first grant, Sameer and his research team will develop new algorithms to better explain why classifiers make certain decisions, increasing user trust in such models. The second grant focuses on the development of new approached for extracting multimodal information from documents, such as text, images, numbers, and databases, with the goal of automatically creating new knowledge bases from relatively unstructured written documents.


August 29, 2018






Workshop for the Philosophy of Machine Learning Standard 

UC Irvine held a very successful workshop on the “Philosophy of Machine Learning” on March 17th & 18th, in the Donald Bren Hall Conference Center (DBH 6011). More information may be found at: https://philmachinelearning.wordpress.com/program/.
Organizers: Andrew Holbrook (Statistics) and Kino Zhao (Logic and Philosophy of Science)
Sponsors: UCI School of Social Sciences; UCI Dept of Logic & Philosophy of Science; UCI Data Science Initiative; and Dr. Babak Shahbaba (via NSF).


March 13, 2018






PhD Students win Best Poster Awards Standard 

Congratulations to CML graduate students for recent poster awards at the 2017 Southern California Machine Learning Symposium held at USC.  Zhengli Zhao and Dheeru Dua (with advisor Sameer Singh) won best poster award for their work on generating natural adversarial examples and Eric Nalisnick (with advisor Padhraic Smyth) won honorable mention for his work on boosting variational inference. There were about 50 student posters presented and over 250 machine learning researchers attended the event. Next SoCal ML Symposium is scheduled for Fall 2018, to be hosted by UCLA.


November 14, 2017






New Faculty Member: Erik Sudderth Standard 

We are delighted to welcome new faculty member Erik Sudderth to the Center. Erik recently joined the Department of Computer Science at UCI as an Associate Professor. He is well-known for his research in machine learning, with interests in topics such as graphical models and Bayesian nonparametric methods. Erik’s research group is also active in the application of these ideas to artificial intelligence, vision, and the natural and social sciences. More information about Erik and his research group is available at Erik’s Webpage.


November 14, 2017






Singh talk, OC ACM Chapter Standard 

Center member Prof. Sameer Singh will discuss  his research on “Explaining Black-Box Machine Learning Predictions,” which addresses the important and challenging problem of enabling people to understand, predict and trust the behavior of machine learning models and algorithms. More information and online registration is available on the Orange County ACM Chapter Meetup Event page.


June 19, 2017






PhD Research Fellowships Standard 

The Computer Science department at UC Irvine is seeking applicants for PhD research fellowships in artificial intelligence, machine learning, and their related applications, including topics such as deep learning, statistical learning, graphical models, information extraction, computer vision, high-dimensional data analysis, and more.
Please see this flier for more information.


November 18, 2016






MidCareer Faculty Positions at UC Irvine Standard 

MidCareer Faculty Positions at UC Irvine
Application deadline: Dec 9th 2016  (Applications received by November 9, 2016 will receive fullest consideration.)
Apply online at:  https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF03719
The University of California, Irvine (UCI) is engaged in a multi-year campuswide strategic expansion and seeks to hire midcareer faculty (advanced assistant, tenured associate, to early full professors) in the area of information and computer sciences who have distinguished publication records and upward trajectories in their research profiles.  
Qualified applicants with interests in artificial intelligence, computer vision, machine learning, natural language processing, bioinformatics and related topics are encouraged to apply for these positions. UCI has a very active group of faculty in these areas including Anima Anandkumar, Pierre Baldi, Rina Dechter, Charless Fowlkes, Alex Ihler, Rick Lathrop, Eric Mjolsness, Sameer Singh, Padhraic Smyth, Erik Sudderth, and Xiaohui Xie – primarily in the computer science department, with strong interdisciplinary connections to departments such as cognitive science, informatics, and statistics. 
Recently celebrating its 50th anniversary, UCI is part of the premier public university system in the world. It was recently named by U.S. News & World Report as a top ten public university and by the New York Times as No. 1 among U.S. universities that do the most for low-income students. UCI is located in one of the world’s safest and most economically vibrant communities and is Orange County’s second-largest employer, contributing $4.8 billion annually to the local economy.
The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy. 


October 28, 2016



Posts navigation

‹Older posts
Newer posts ›





 
Search



 


(c) 2015 Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

WordPress/BonPress






