https://cml.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/3





News | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems | Page 3





























Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine






Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
University of California, Irvine


Menu
Skip to content
Home
About CML

About us
News
Contact Us


People

Faculty
Alumni


Events & Seminars

AI/ML Seminar Series
AI/ML Seminar Live Stream
CML Distinguished Speakers
ML Reading Group


Education & Resources

Courses
Books


UCI Machine Learning Archive
Sponsors & Funding
Subscribe to CML List
 





News 





Workshop On Interacting with Robots Through Touch Standard 

Center affiliate Prof. Jeff Krichmar is co-organizing a workshop on “Interacting with Robots Through Touch” at UC Irvine on September 13, 2016:
Workshop On Interacting with Robots Through Touch at UC Irvine
September 13, 2016
9AM – 6PM
1517 Social and Behavioral Sciences Gateway, University of California, Irvine.
Register at: http://www.socsci.uci.edu/~jkrichma/haptics_workshop.html
Description:
Robots and autonomous systems are increasingly becoming a part of our everyday life. In particular co-Robots, in which robots have a symbiotic relationship with people, have the potential to increase social well-being and open up new socioeconomic opportunities. For example, Human-Robot Interaction (HRI), co-Robotics, and Socially Assistive Robots (SARs) are increasingly being used for entertainment, education, telepresence, rehabilitation and therapy. SARs have the potential to help children with developmental disorders, such as autism or attention deficit disorders. Social robots can act as digital ethnographers by: automatically detecting what robot-generated activities children enjoy most, monitoring development of social structure within the classroom. To date, most of these co-robots focus on eye contact (e.g., shared attention, shared gaze, etc.) and auditory cues (e.g., catch phrases and music), but tend to neglect other sensory systems important for social behavior,!
  such as tactile interaction.
The purpose of this workshop is to explore the use of tactile sensing in HRI and SARs. The day will include talks by invited speakers and a poster session. If you are interested in presenting a poster on this topic, send your abstract to: jkrichma@uci.edu
Confirmed Speakers:

 Andrea Chiba, University of California, San Diego
 Deborah Forster, University of California, San Diego
 William Harwin, University of Reading
 Guy Hoffman, Cornell University
 Jeffrey L. Krichmar, University of California, Irvine
 Francis McGlone, Liverpool JM University
 David J. Reinkensmeyer, University of California, Irvine
 Veronica J. Santos, University of California, Los Angeles
 Michael Tolley, University of California, San Diego



August 10, 2016






Southern California Machine Learning Symposium Standard 

On Friday, May 20 2016, UC Irvine will host the Southern California Machine Learning Symposium at CalIT2.  The event is co-sponsored by CML, IGB, and the UCI Data Science Initiative.  Speakers include:

 Sanjoy Dasgupta, UC San Diego
 Michael Jordan, UC Berkeley
 Tomaso Poggio, MIT
 Vladimir Vapnik, Columbia University & Facebook
 Anima Anandkumar, UC Irvine
 Fei Sha, UCLA
 Kevin Murphy, Google
 Pietro Perona, Caltech
 Pierre Baldi, UC Irvine

You can register online at: www.bit.ly/ML2016.
For additional information, see the event poster.


March 14, 2016






Anandkumar receives Google Research Award Standard 

Center member Anima Anandkumar was awarded a Google Research award grant for Fall 2015.  Google Research Awards are an “annual open call for proposals on computer science and related topics including machine learning, speech recognition, natural language processing, and computational neuroscience.”  Awards are highly competitive, with 151 projects funded of 950 proposals.  Grants include funding for a graduate student, and provide opportunities for students and faculty to collaborate directly with researchers at Google.  For more information, see the Google Research Blog.


February 17, 2016






Stern to help lead national effort to improve criminal evidence analysis, cut wrongful convictions Standard 

Center member Hal Stern, dean of the Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences and professor of statistics, will help lead a new national Forensic Science Center of Excellence. Aimed at improving criminal evidence analysis and reducing wrongful convictions, it will be funded by a five-year, $20 million grant from the National Institute of Standards & Technology. The campus will receive about $4 million, to be used by ICS and social ecology faculty and students. “UC Irvine is honored to be a part of this. There is a critical need to advance the scientific underpinnings for the analysis of forensic evidence – including fingerprints, firearms, marks left by tools, and documents – and to ensure that participants in the law enforcement process have a strong understanding of proper analyses and interpretation,” said Stern, who is principal investigator for UCI. The center, headquartered at Iowa State University, also will partner with Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Virginia. It will incorporate both a research agenda – developing new probabilistic methods and statistical tools – and education to ensure that judges, lawyers and investigators can effectively utilize the results of forensic analyses. For more information, see here.


May 25, 2015






Ihler gives short course on approximate inference at MLSS Standard 

Center Director Alexander Ihler gave a half-day course on approximate inference in graphical models as part of the 2015 Machine Learning Summer School in Sydney Australia.  MLSS is a long-running series of summer schools around the world for graduate students and researchers who want to apply machine learning methods to their research problems.  His lecture is available online here.


February 28, 2015






Anandkumar receives AFOSR Young Investigator Award Standard 

Center member Prof. Anima Anandkumar received a 3-year grant, Learning Mixed Membership Community Models: A Statistical and a Computational Framework, from the Air Force Office of Scientific Research, as part of its Young Investigator Research Program.  The YIP is open to scientists and engineers who received their Ph.D. within the last five years, and show exceptional ability and promise for conducting basic research. Its objective is to foster creative basic research in science and engineering, enhance early career development of outstanding young investigators, and increase opportunities for the young investigators to recognize the Air Force mission and the related challenges in science and engineering.


January 22, 2015






Mjolsness named American Association for the Advancement of Science fellow Standard 

Center member and Professor of Computer Science Eric Mjolsness has been been made a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science for his distinguished contributions to the fields of computer science and biology, particularly for new computational models of gene regulation (networks of genes that turn each other on, off or partly on) and resulting technologies. For more details, see here.


November 25, 2014






Baldi, Kobsa, Mark receive Google Faculty Research Awards Standard 

Three ICS professors have received a Google Faculty Research Award as part of Google’s biannual open call for proposals in computer science, engineering and related fields. Computer science Chancellor’s Professor Pierre Baldi, informatics and computer science professor Alfred Kobsa and informatics professor Gloria Mark join several other ICS faculty who have received the award in recent years. Read more


September 1, 2014






Tomlinson, Patterson receive $400,000 NSF grant for crowdsourcing and food security project Standard 

The National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded informatics professor Bill Tomlinson $400,000 for his project “Fostering Non-Expert Creation of Sustainable Polycultures through Crowdsourced Data Synthesis.” Associate professor Donald Patterson and Assistant Professor of Crop Sciences at the University of Illinois Sarah Taylor Lovell serve as co-principal investigators.
The project integrates research in computing and sustainability science with the goal of enabling a new approach to sustainable food security. By combining cyber-human systems and crowdsourcing research with the science of agroecology, the project seeks to develop an understanding of how online design tools may contribute to sustainability through enhanced local food production; to use the process of populating a plant species database as an instance of a class of problems amenable to intelligent crowdsourcing; and to pioneer new knowledge in crowdsourcing optimization.
According to the project abstract, “The work will contribute to long-term food security and offer lessons, concepts, methods, and software tools that may be transferable to other sustainability challenges.”
The award is part of the Cyber-Innovation for Sustainability Science and Engineering (CyberSEES) program at NSF, and is funded through the Division of Computing and Communication Foundations (CCF), which supports research and education projects that explore the foundations of computing and communication devices and their usage. According to the CCF website, “CCF-supported projects also investigate revolutionary computing models and technologies based on emerging scientific ideas and integrate research and education activities to prepare future generations of computer science and engineering workers.”


August 18, 2014






Lee uses crowdsourcing to predict World Cup outcome Standard 

Center member and Professor of Cognitive Science Michael Lee, in partnership with
Ranker, are using the wisdom of the crowd to predict the outcome of the World Cup. Lee and his collaborators developed a model that integrates multiple sources of ranking information available from participating individuals, along with bracket information, to make an overall prediction on each country’s likelihood of winning.  See their blog post for more information.
Update: After the tournament, Lee and his collaborators have also analyzed their performance relative to other World Cup prediction models.


August 18, 2014



Posts navigation

‹Older posts
Newer posts ›





 
Search



 


(c) 2015 Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

WordPress/BonPress






