https://cml.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/6





News | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems | Page 6





























Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine






Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
University of California, Irvine


Menu
Skip to content
Home
About CML

About us
News
Contact Us


People

Faculty
Alumni


Events & Seminars

AI/ML Seminar Series
AI/ML Seminar Live Stream
CML Distinguished Speakers
ML Reading Group


Education & Resources

Courses
Books


UCI Machine Learning Archive
Sponsors & Funding
Subscribe to CML List
 





News 





Professor Padhraic Smyth serves as Program Chair for KDD-2011 Standard 

Computer science professor Padhraic Smyth is the Program Chair for the 17th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. Considered the premier annual international research conference on data mining, the event this year drew a record-setting 1,000+ attendees. Approximately 725 research papers were submitted (another record), of which 125 were accepted for oral or poster presentation at the meeting. The review process involved more than 350 reviewers and 35 senior program committee members. Keynote presenters include Peter Norvig (Google), Stephen Boyd (Stanford University), David Haussler (UC Santa Cruz) and Judea Pearl (UCLA).


September 3, 2011






Professor Max Welling appointed Associate Editor for IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence Standard 

Computer science professor Max Welling is now Associate Editor-in-Chief for IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence (TPAMI). Welling has previously served as Associate Editor for TPAMI, which is one of the highest impact journals in the general area of artificial intelligence and machine learning.  In addition to participating in the review process, Welling is helping to organize a number of special issues on timely topics in machine learning.


September 2, 2011






Center Member wins Koenderink Prize at European Conference on Computer Vision Standard 

Max Welling, professor of computer science, has been awarded European Conference on Computer Vision’s Koenderink Prize in recognition of his computer vision research paper that has “withstood the test of time.” Entitled “Unsupervised Learning of Models for Recognition,” the paper was originally published in 2000. The research paper presents a method to learn object class models from unlabeled and unsegmented cluttered scenes for the purpose of visual object recognition.


September 1, 2010






Center Member Named Fellow of the Association for Advancement of Artificial Intelligence Standard 

Padhraic Smyth, professor of computer science and director of the CML, has been named a fellow of the Association for Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI).  Recognized for his significant contributions to the theory and practice of statistical machine learning, Smyth is one of only eight researchers worldwide who has been named AAAI Fellows this year.  The AAAI Fellows program recognizes individuals who have made significant, sustained contributions to the field of artificial intelligence  — a lifetime honor.


July 1, 2010






Center Member Awarded 2010 Eduardo R. Caianiello Prize Standard 

Pierre Baldi, Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science and Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics director, has been awarded the 2010 Eduardo R. Caianiello Prize for Scientific Contributions to the Field of Neural Networks from the Italian Neural Network Society (SIREN).  The distinguished prize is given to senior professors who have made significant contributions to the field of neural networks. Neural network are circuits of artificial neurons used to build systems that can learn from data and experience. 


June 1, 2010






Center Members Awarded Intel Grant to Study Compression of Personal Human Genome Data Standard 

CML faculty Chen Li and Xiaohui Xie have been awarded a $100,000 grant from Intel. The grant will support research on genome compression and direct querying of compressed genomic data — critical challenges in the emerging field of personalized medicine. Li and Xie will be collaborating on the research with colleagues at China’s Northeastern University.


May 2, 2010






Center Member Named Fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics Standard 

Statistics professor David van Dyk has been named a Fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics. The Fellowship honors the outstanding research and professional contributions of IMS members who are leaders in the field of statistics and probability.  Professor van Dyk’s scholarly work focuses on methodological and computational issues involved with Bayesian analysis of highly structured statistical models and emphasizes serious interdisciplinary research.


May 1, 2010






Center Member Receives NSF Grant for Family Reunification Project Standard 

Professor of Computer Science Chen Li has received a $50,000 NSF grant for his project entitled ‘RAPID: Supporting Family Reunification for the Haiti Earthquake and Future Emergencies.’   Li is leading the effort on developing a web site for family reunification in response to the Haiti earthquake.  The techniques developed in this project will potentially have a broad impact on many information systems that are moving towards the cloud-computing paradigm.


April 2, 2010






Center Member Awarded NSF EAGER Award Standard 

Research Scientist David Newman has been awarded a $25,000 NSF EAGER Award for his research entitled ‘Analyzing Grant Portfolios through Topic Modeling.’ The goal of this research is to develop and apply topic models to analyze collections of grant proposals and their metadata.    The award will be used to develop tools to help NSF program officers better analyze, visualize and interact with large collections of both unfunded proposals and funded projects.


April 1, 2010






Center Members Receive Marr Prize at ICCV Standard 

A paper entitled “Discriminative models for multi-class object layout” by Chaitanya Desai, Deva Ramanan and Charless Fowlkes received the Marr Prize at the International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) held in Kyoto, Japan. The prize is named after David Marr, a theoretical neuroscientist who made profound contributions to the theory of both human and machine vision in the 1970’s.  The prize is awarded to the best paper at ICCV and is considered one of the top honors in computer vision. The authors plan to spend the prize money on a couch for the UCI Computational Vision lab. 


October 3, 2009



Posts navigation

‹Older posts
Newer posts ›





 
Search



 


(c) 2015 Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

WordPress/BonPress






