https://cml.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/7





News | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems | Page 7





























Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine






Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
University of California, Irvine


Menu
Skip to content
Home
About CML

About us
News
Contact Us


People

Faculty
Alumni


Events & Seminars

AI/ML Seminar Series
AI/ML Seminar Live Stream
CML Distinguished Speakers
ML Reading Group


Education & Resources

Courses
Books


UCI Machine Learning Archive
Sponsors & Funding
Subscribe to CML List
 





News 





Distinguished Speaker Series for 09-10 Announced Standard 

The Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems is very pleased to announce its Distinguished Speaker series for the academic year 2009-2010. This year’s series will bring a set of internationally-known researchers to UC Irvine, speaking on a broad set of topics ranging from machine learning, statistical prediction, and analysis of text, network, and Web data.  For further information, see the 2009-2010 speaker schedule.


October 2, 2009






Center Member Awarded NSF Grant to Store and Analyze Semi-Structured Data Standard 

Michael Carey and Center member Chen Li, professors of Computer Science at the University of California Irvine, have been awarded a $1.8 million grant from the National Science Foundation’s Data-Intensive Computing Program. The project entitled ‘ASTERIX: A Highly Scalable Parallel Platform for Semistructured Data Management and Analysis’ will research and develop new technologies for storing and analyzing semi-structured data.  


October 1, 2009






Center Director Receives 2009 ACM SIGKDD Innovation Award Standard 

Padhraic Smyth, Professor of Computer Science and Director of the Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems, has been awarded the 2009 Innovation Award from the Association of Computing Machineryﾒs Special Interest Group on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (SIGKDD).  Smyth is recognized for his contributions to both the theory and application of probabilistic and statistical approaches to data mining.  For more details, see the award citation.


June 1, 2009






PhD Students Receive Prestigious Graduate Fellowships Standard 

Christopher DuBois, America Holloway, and Chloe Azencott have recently been awarded prestigious graduate fellowships.  DuBois, a first-year statistics PhD student, received a three-year NDSEG Graduate Fellowship, and he will use this funding to pursue research on statistical modeling of social networks.  Holloway, a second-year computer science PhD student, received a Microsoft Graduate Women’s Scholarship, and she will use this funding to further her research on topic models.  Azencott, a fourth-year computer science PhD student, received an IBM PhD Fellowship, which will fund her investigation of machine learning techniques for chemoinformatics.  Congrats to all!


April 1, 2009






Center Receives Yahoo! Gift Funding Standard 

The Center has recently received gift funding in the amount of $5000 from Yahoo! Research for continued support of the weekly Seminar Series in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. The series has been running for over 2 years now with support from Yahoo! and has been a great success with upwards of 40 to 50 students and faculty attending weekly.


February 1, 2009






Center Member Awarded Grant to Study Vision Techniques for Satellite Imagery Standard 

Charless Fowlkes, an assistant professor in computer science, was recently awarded a grant through the UC Lab Research program, entitled "Context Driven Image Interpretation in Satellite Imagery".  The grant provides $488k over three years and is a collaboration between Fowlkes and investigators at Los Alamos National Labs.  Their goal is to develop new techniques for image segmentation and object recognition based on contextual relations within a scene. These methods will be applied to performing large-scale visual search and automatic identification of potential threats in satellite imagery, in order to aid nuclear verification and counter proliferation efforts.


December 1, 2008






Computational Vision Group Hosts 1st Southern California Computer Vision Meetup Standard 

On October 3rd, 2008, the Computational Vision group at UC Irvine hosted the first Southern California Computer Vision Meetup, where researchers in computer vision presented their latest findings.  Participants included faculty from local universities such as UCI, UCLA, UCSD, and Caltech, as well as researchers from JPL and Google.  The Computational Vision group is affiliated with the Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems.


October 1, 2008






Center Member Applies Machine Learning to Large Hadron Collider Standard 

Along with six other UCI faculty members, Center member Daniel Whiteson, an assistant professor in physics & astronomy, is playing a key role in the Large Hadron Collider, the worldﾒs most powerful particle accelerator.  Whiteson’s primary role is to ensure that data acquisition operates smoothly over 2,000 computers operating in parallel.  Whiteson’s research includes the use of machine learning techniques to sift through huge amounts of proton-proton collision data, in order to look for evidence of the Higgs boson or other fundamentally new particles.  


September 2, 2008






Center Members Awarded $5.4 Million to Study Large-Scale Networks Standard 

Along with Center members Michael Goodrich, David Eppstein, and Carter Butts, computer science professor and director of the Center for Machine Learning Padhraic Smyth has received a five-year, $5.4 million grant from the U.S. Office of Naval Research to study large-scale networks with millions of nodes.  The goal is to understand how networks the size of Facebook and LinkedIn are formed and how they evolve over time.  The multidisciplinary effort spans the spectrum from theoretical computer science to the social sciences and will involve faculty with expertise ranging from algorithms to graph visualization, machine learning, statistics, sociology and behavioral science.


September 2, 2008






Center Member Awarded $750,000 from IMLS to Study Topic Modeling of Digital Resources Standard 

Center member David Newman and collaborators at Yale University and University of Michigan have been awarded $750,000 from the Institute of Museum and Library Services to study how topic modeling can be used to improve search and discovery of digital resources in increasingly large digital collections. They will apply topic modeling to three important classes of digital library resources: full-text books, images, and tagged objects.  The team will build prototypes of user interface applications that use topic modeling, to assess the value of topic modeling to users.  


September 1, 2008



Posts navigation

‹Older posts
Newer posts ›





 
Search



 


(c) 2015 Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

WordPress/BonPress






