https://cml.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/9





News | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems | Page 9





























Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine






Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
University of California, Irvine


Menu
Skip to content
Home
About CML

About us
News
Contact Us


People

Faculty
Alumni


Events & Seminars

AI/ML Seminar Series
AI/ML Seminar Live Stream
CML Distinguished Speakers
ML Reading Group


Education & Resources

Courses
Books


UCI Machine Learning Archive
Sponsors & Funding
Subscribe to CML List
 





News 





Jain Receives Best Paper Award at Multimedia Modeling Conference Standard 

Ramesh Jain, Donald Bren Professor in Information and Computer Sciences, has been awarded the Best Paper Award at the International Conference on Multimedia Modeling, held in Singapore January 10-12.  The paper, entitled Ontology-based Annotation of Paintings using Transductive Inference Framework, proposed a framework for ontology-based annotation of paintings with application-level concepts of art period.


January 1, 2007






UCI Machine Learning Researchers Presented Seven Papers at the 2006 NIPS Conference Standard 

Students and faculty in the Baldi, Smyth, and Welling research groups presented a total of 7 papers at the Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS) Conference in Vancouver in December. NIPS is one of the premier international conferences in machine learning – over 800 papers were submitted to the conference and only 200 were accepted.


October 4, 2006






Padhraic Smyth Advises Netflix on its Prediction Competition With a $1 Million Prize Standard 

Padhraic Smyth, director of the Center for Machine Learning and professor of information and computer science, will participate as a judge for the Netflix competition, which boasts a hefty $1 million prize.  This competition seeks to improve the task of predicting user ratings of Neflix movies.  Smyth will assist in the evaluation of qualifying submissions.


October 3, 2006






Baldi Named Chancellor’s Professor Standard 

Pierre Baldi, director of the Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics and professor of information and computer science and biological chemistry, has been awarded the title of Chancellor’s Professor, effective Wednesday, Nov.  1. The title is conferred for a five-year renewable term and recognizes scholars who have demonstrated unusual academic merit and whose continued promise for scholarly achievement makes them of exceptional value to the university. Baldi’s research areas include bioinformatics, computational biology, probabilistic modeling, and machine learning.


October 2, 2006






Pierre Baldi awarded $45k gift from Microsoft Standard 



October 1, 2006






Chen Li recipient of  Google Research award Standard 



August 1, 2006






UCI Researchers “text mine” the New York Times Standard 



July 1, 2006






Arthur Asuncion (first-year Phd student in Fall 2006) wins NSF Fellowship Standard 



May 2, 2006






David Van Dyk elected as Fellow of the American Statistical Association Standard 



May 1, 2006






Padhraic Smyth and Hal Stern recipients of large NIH funding award Standard 



March 2, 2006



Posts navigation

‹Older posts
Newer posts ›





 
Search



 


(c) 2015 Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

WordPress/BonPress






