http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/?page_id=25






	Calico – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






Calico

Description
Calico is an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices, with a particular focus on supporting the early stages of software design. Most software developers, when faced with a design problem, forgo existing modeling tools altogether in favor of pen-and-paper or the whiteboard to work through the problem and come up with a solution. A hallmark of this activity is that the developers sketch: they create rough, imprecise approximations of the design they have in mind that are modified and refined continuously as part of the design activity. Calico explores touch-based hardware, including electronic whiteboards, tablet PCs, slates, and iPads, to create a novel software design environment in support of software developers engaged in design sketching.


 
Highlights
Calico’s features are designed to amplify various key practices in creative software design, including exploration of alternatives, frequent shifts in focus, use of a mix of typically low-fidelity notations, and incremental refinement from initial sketches to more complete diagrams. Highlights include:
Fluid interaction – Calico’s interface design balances the fluidity and flexibility of traditional whiteboard or pen and paper design with advanced features that seamlessly enhance the sketching experience.
Scraps – Scraps turn passive strokes into active sketches by “lifting” drawn content from the canvas onto first-class objects that can be freely moved, stacked, resized, rotated, combined, and connected.
Grid – Multiple drawing canvases are organized into a rectangular grid, where they can be rearranged, copied, compared, (selectively) merged, erased, and e-mailed for further consideration.
Collaborative support  – A client-server architecture enables multiple software developers, each possibly using a different kind of device, to work collaboratively, even across geographically distributed locations.
History – Calico stores all interactions in a central archive, enabling developers to return to, replay, and branch from previous design sessions, as well as to reflect upon their own and others’ design practices.
Demo
A demo is now available. Please click the button below to launch Calico via Java Web Start.


The demo automatically connects to the public server, and will automatically assign your username based on your machine settings.
Key publications

N. Mangano, T.D. LaToza, Marian Petre, and A. van der Hoek, Supporting Informal Design with Interactive Whiteboards, Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, April 2014.
D. Loksa, N. Mangano, T.D. LaToza, and A. van der Hoek, Enabling a Classroom Design Studio with a Collaborative Sketch Design Tool, Thirty-fifth International Conference on Software Engineering Education Track, May 2013, pages 1073–1082.
A. Motta, N. Mangano, and A. van der Hoek, Light-weight Analysis of Software Design Models at the Whiteboard Fifth International Workshop on Modeling in Software Engineering, May 2013, pages 18–23.
N. Mangano and A. van der Hoek, The design and evaluation of a tool to support software designers at the whiteboard, Automated Software Engineering, 19(4): 2012, pages 381–421.
N. Mangano, M. Dempsey, N. Lopez, and A. van der Hoek, A Demonstration of a Distributed Software Design Sketching Tool, Thirty-third International Conference on Software Engineering Demonstration Track, May 2011, pages 1028–1030.
N. Mangano, A. Baker, M. Dempsey, E. Navarro, and A. van der Hoek, Software Design Sketching with Calico, Twenty-fifth IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, September 2010, pages 23–32.
N. Mangano, A. Baker, M. Dempsey, E. Navarro, and A. van der Hoek, Calico: A Tool for Early Software Design Sketching, Workshop on Sketch Tools for Diagramming, September 2008, pages 51–56.









 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In






