http://www.ics.uci.edu/~skong2/SMMMSG.html


Recurrent Pixel Embedding for Instance Grouping - Shu Kong (Aimery) - UC Irvine - Computer Vision









pixel embedding for grouping




Recurrent Pixel Embedding for Instance Grouping

Shu Kong, 
          Charless Fowlkes


Last update: Nov. 17, 2017.











We introduce a differentiable, end-to-end trainable framework for solving
pixel-level grouping problems such as instance segmentation consisting of two
novel components. First, we regress pixels into a hyper-spherical embedding
space so that pixels from the same group have high cosine similarity while
those from different groups have similarity below a specified margin.  We
analyze the choice of embedding dimension and margin, relating them to
theoretical results on the problem of distributing points uniformly on the
sphere. Second, to group instances, we utilize a variant of mean-shift
clustering, implemented as a recurrent neural network parameterized by kernel
bandwidth.  This recurrent grouping module is differentiable, enjoys convergent
dynamics and probabilistic interpretability.  Backpropagating the
group-weighted loss through this module allows learning to focus on only
correcting embedding errors that won't be resolved during subsequent
clustering.  Our framework, while conceptually simple and theoretically
abundant, is also practically effective and computationally efficient. We
demonstrate substantial improvements over state-of-the-art instance
segmentation for object proposal generation, as well as demonstrating
the benefits of grouping loss for classification tasks such as boundary
detection and semantic segmentation.


keywords: 
Pixel Embedding,
Recurrent Grouping,
Boundary Detection,
Object Proposal Detection,
Instance Segmentation,
Semantic Segmentation,
Maximum Margin,
Metric Learning,
Hard Pixel Pair Mining,
Distributing Many Points on a (Hyper-) Sphere,
Mean Shift Clustering,
Recurrent Networks,
Mode Seeking,
von Mises Fisher Distribution,
Robust Loss, 
Instance-aware Pixel Weighting.





 S. Kong, C. Fowlkes, "Recurrent Pixel Embedding for Instance Grouping",
CVPR, 2018.

[project page]
[paper]
[demo]
[models]
[github]
[poster]
[slides]


















