https://cml.ics.uci.edu/2016/08/workshop-on-interacting-with-robots-through-touch





Workshop On Interacting with Robots Through Touch | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

































Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine






Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
University of California, Irvine


Menu
Skip to content
Home
About CML

About us
News
Contact Us


People

Faculty
Alumni


Events & Seminars

AI/ML Seminar Series
AI/ML Seminar Live Stream
CML Distinguished Speakers
ML Reading Group


Education & Resources

Courses
Books


UCI Machine Learning Archive
Sponsors & Funding
Subscribe to CML List
 





Workshop On Interacting with Robots Through Touch Standard

August 10, 2016
News



Center affiliate Prof. Jeff Krichmar is co-organizing a workshop on “Interacting with Robots Through Touch” at UC Irvine on September 13, 2016:
Workshop On Interacting with Robots Through Touch at UC Irvine
September 13, 2016
9AM – 6PM
1517 Social and Behavioral Sciences Gateway, University of California, Irvine.
Register at: http://www.socsci.uci.edu/~jkrichma/haptics_workshop.html
Description:
Robots and autonomous systems are increasingly becoming a part of our everyday life. In particular co-Robots, in which robots have a symbiotic relationship with people, have the potential to increase social well-being and open up new socioeconomic opportunities. For example, Human-Robot Interaction (HRI), co-Robotics, and Socially Assistive Robots (SARs) are increasingly being used for entertainment, education, telepresence, rehabilitation and therapy. SARs have the potential to help children with developmental disorders, such as autism or attention deficit disorders. Social robots can act as digital ethnographers by: automatically detecting what robot-generated activities children enjoy most, monitoring development of social structure within the classroom. To date, most of these co-robots focus on eye contact (e.g., shared attention, shared gaze, etc.) and auditory cues (e.g., catch phrases and music), but tend to neglect other sensory systems important for social behavior,!
  such as tactile interaction.
The purpose of this workshop is to explore the use of tactile sensing in HRI and SARs. The day will include talks by invited speakers and a poster session. If you are interested in presenting a poster on this topic, send your abstract to: jkrichma@uci.edu
Confirmed Speakers:

 Andrea Chiba, University of California, San Diego
 Deborah Forster, University of California, San Diego
 William Harwin, University of Reading
 Guy Hoffman, Cornell University
 Jeffrey L. Krichmar, University of California, Irvine
 Francis McGlone, Liverpool JM University
 David J. Reinkensmeyer, University of California, Irvine
 Veronica J. Santos, University of California, Los Angeles
 Michael Tolley, University of California, San Diego




Post navigation
← Spring 2016 Fall 2016 →




 
Search



 


(c) 2015 Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

WordPress/BonPress






