https://cml.ics.uci.edu/2016/10/midcareer-faculty-positions-at-uc-irvine





MidCareer Faculty Positions at UC Irvine | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

































Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine






Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
University of California, Irvine


Menu
Skip to content
Home
About CML

About us
News
Contact Us


People

Faculty
Alumni


Events & Seminars

AI/ML Seminar Series
AI/ML Seminar Live Stream
CML Distinguished Speakers
ML Reading Group


Education & Resources

Courses
Books


UCI Machine Learning Archive
Sponsors & Funding
Subscribe to CML List
 





MidCareer Faculty Positions at UC Irvine Standard

October 28, 2016
News



MidCareer Faculty Positions at UC Irvine
Application deadline: Dec 9th 2016  (Applications received by November 9, 2016 will receive fullest consideration.)
Apply online at:  https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF03719
The University of California, Irvine (UCI) is engaged in a multi-year campuswide strategic expansion and seeks to hire midcareer faculty (advanced assistant, tenured associate, to early full professors) in the area of information and computer sciences who have distinguished publication records and upward trajectories in their research profiles.  
Qualified applicants with interests in artificial intelligence, computer vision, machine learning, natural language processing, bioinformatics and related topics are encouraged to apply for these positions. UCI has a very active group of faculty in these areas including Anima Anandkumar, Pierre Baldi, Rina Dechter, Charless Fowlkes, Alex Ihler, Rick Lathrop, Eric Mjolsness, Sameer Singh, Padhraic Smyth, Erik Sudderth, and Xiaohui Xie – primarily in the computer science department, with strong interdisciplinary connections to departments such as cognitive science, informatics, and statistics. 
Recently celebrating its 50th anniversary, UCI is part of the premier public university system in the world. It was recently named by U.S. News & World Report as a top ten public university and by the New York Times as No. 1 among U.S. universities that do the most for low-income students. UCI is located in one of the world’s safest and most economically vibrant communities and is Orange County’s second-largest employer, contributing $4.8 billion annually to the local economy.
The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy. 



Post navigation
← Fall 2016 PhD Research Fellowships →




 
Search



 


(c) 2015 Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

WordPress/BonPress






