http://www.ics.uci.edu/~stasio/spring04/ics180.html


ICS 180: Introduction to Cryptography

 ICS 180: Introduction to Cryptography
Spring Quarter, 2004





			 Instructor:       
				Stanislaw Jarecki



				Class time:        
  Tu-Th, 11-12:20
			
				Room:              
  SSTR (social science trailer, bldg 203), room 100
			
				Class number:   ICS 180, 
			Section A
			
				Prerequisites:    ICS 
			6A and ICS 161, but see below
			
				Textbook:         
  None, but there’ll be lecture note handouts, and lots of material is available 
			on-line (see more below)
			
				Office hours:     Monday 
				3-5 (for now), and otherwise by appointment.  I 
				encourage you to use the office hours and also to communicate with me by email.

Most important info:


Lecture 
					summaries, lecture notes, problem sets, solutions, other handouts      
				[shortcut to 
					handout list]

Reference reading 
					material

Course Description:
This course is an introduction to modern cryptography for advanced 
			undergraduates.   In this class, rather than looking at many 
			different cryptographic schemes and protocols, we will focus on understanding 
			the *goals* of security protocols, i.e. on understanding what properties a 
			protocol needs to achieve to be considered secure and truly useful for computer 
			applications, and on showing how to *prove* that some protocol actually 
			achieves these properties, and hence is indeed secure. We will see how to 
			define, construct, and prove security of symmetric and public-key encryption 
			schemes, signature schemes, authentication schemes, identification protocols, 
			etc.  At the end of the course, 
			the students will be able to understand cryptographic research and, if 
			interested, pursue such research themselves.  The class should also 
			be interesting and useful to anyone interested in general computer and network 
			security.
What this class is not about:
This class will not teach you all there’s to know to make computers and networks 
			secure.  Cryptography is only one 
			tool, or if you will, one layer in the stack of engineering issues that need to 
			be solved to make computers secure.  Computer 
			security has to deal with lots of other issues we’ll not touch on in the class, 
			like buggy code, viruses and other break-ins, denial of service attacks, the 
			need to monitor a network, preventing bad passwords, integrating various 
			network services securely, and many more.  We’ll 
			stay firmly on the layer of algorithm
			design, although the real-world security issues like those listed above will 
			motivate the security properties we’ll require of our cryptographic algorithms.
			
In this class we’ll also not concentrate on techniques used to design and 
			analyze block ciphers (like DES or AES) and hash functions (like MD5 and SHA).  The 
			class will offer you some insight 
			into security of such constructions, but designing and analyzing such 
			constructions is mostly a separate art, and since there are no good techniques 
			as of now to prove much about their 
			security, we’ll not focus on these constructions in this class.
Grading:
All your grades will be based on weekly problem sets and a take-home final 
			(which will be just a longer homework).  You are also encouraged to 
			actively participate in the class.
Lectures and Notes:
Since there’s no textbook, it’s really important that you come to lectures and 
			participate.  We’ll be distributing 
			lecture notes and pointers to on-line information, but I’m still developing 
			these and they might not always cover everything we do in class.
Prerequisites:
The formal prerequisites are ICS 6.A and ICS.161.  However, 
			what you really need is this:


				You cannot be “math-phobic” or “theory-phobic”!  This 
				class will be about definitions and proofs, and we’ll use some probability and 
				some number theory in analysis of our algorithms.
More 
			specifically, you need the following:


			You should be comfortable with proofs, with elementary probability, and have 
			the basic knowledge of discrete math used in computer science 
			(e.g. ICS.6A).
			
				It's highly recommended that you have some algorithms class (like ICS.161), and 
				that you are familiar with asymptotic analysis of algorithm running time 
				(e.g. that one algorithm has O(n2) running time and the other 
			only O(n), and that the third algorithm is probabilistic and it has a 
			probability of error O(1/n), etc.)
			
				It'd be also easier for you if you took a computability/complexity class like 
				ICS.162, so you are familiar with the notion of polynomial-time algorithms, and 
				the notion of a reduction between computational problems.
				  However, this is 
			material which we'll go over in this class to the extend that we'll use it, 
			and I believe that you can pick it up easily.
			
				You do not have to know modular 
				arithmetic, although it will help if you were exposed to it before.  We’ll 
				do a review of everything we will need.
The last three topics listed above will be briefly reviewed in class. If 
			you are missing some of this background, see the reading list link above 
			for review material which is available on-line.
This class is complementary to other UCI classes on security/cryptography:
No previous experience in cryptography or security is necessary for this class 
			(see the prerequisites above), but for those students who have taken or are 
			thinking of taking other UCI classes on security/cryptography, here is a word 
			of explanation why this class differs from and complements the related UCI 
			classes:


				ICS 168/268:   Students who took ICS 168/268 are very much encouraged 
				to take this class.  The two classes cover different material and can 
				be taken in any order.  The reason the two classes complement each 
				other well is that ICS 168/268 focuses on breadth of 
				cryptographic algorithms and secure applications, while this class focuses 
				on depth, by laying out a systematic approach to the 
				study of any
			secure algorithms and protocols.
			
				Math 173A:   Similarly, students who took and liked "Intro to 
				Cryptology", Math 173A, are encouraged to take this class 
				too.  The material differs, but Math 173A is a very good introduction and 
				background for this class.  Math 173A teaches number theoretical 
				foundations of the two most famous public key algorithms, i.e. the 
				RSA encryption/signature schemes based on the factoring assupmtion, and the 
				encryption/signature schemes based on the discrete logarithm 
				assumption.   This is a very useful and fun material, but from 
				the point of view of crypto theory as taught in this class, what Math 
				173A shows is that a specific cryptographic object called a one 
					way function can be efficiently built from 
				particular number-theoretic assumptions (discrete log or factoring).  
				In this class we will take the assumption that one-way functions can 
				be constructed as more or less our starting point (!), and we will 
				see how to build more complex cryptographic objects on this and other 
				assumptions (see further info in the tentative course outline below).
			






