http://cradl.ics.uci.edu/?page_id=233





Hiroko Wilensky | CRADL Lab




























Home
News
People
Projects
Publications
 













Hiroko Wilensky


 Full profile







Hiroko Wilensky, Visiting Researcher
 Projects: Communities of Practice and Knowledge Dissemination
 Website
 Research areas: Communities of Practice



I am currently a visiting researcher at the University of California, Irvine (UCI) and a software engineer at Boeing Company, Phantom Works. I completed my PhD under the supervision of Professor David Redmiles in Informatics at the School of Information and Computer Sciences at UCI.
My research interests are computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW), knowledge management (KM), communities of practice and work, technology and organizations (WTO). I am interested in what role technology plays in people’s work practices and informal communities at their workplaces. I researched a community of knowledge management practitioners in the aerospace industry. The themes and findings of this research includes:
legitimization of the KM discipline and work practices; power relationships between work organizations and the community and the hardships in disseminating KM in aerospace companies. This research led to a study of the inception and transformation of the concept of communities of practice- i.e. how did a concept in the social science realm transform into a KM tool in business and management. My other research is about the use of Web2.0, in particular, blogs and social network sites at workplaces.


















News


SuCSES is coming!


Site Tools

Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.org

 


CRADL receives funding from the National Science Foundation under grants 0943262, 0808783, and 1111446.
 
Department of Informatics | Donald Bren School of Information and Computer SciencesBren Hall 5042 | University of California, Irvine | Irvine, CA 92697-3440cradl_info@ics.uci.edu
 
Powered by WordPress | Theme: Yoko by Elmastudio | Header image: E. Howe
Top




