https://www.cs.uci.edu/iot-hackathon-apps-coming-soon




IoT Hackathon Apps Coming Soon 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


IoT Hackathon Apps Coming Soon
January 4, 2018 Students, faculty and staff in Donald Bren Hall (DBH) will soon have access to apps stemming from the first IoT Hackathon held in the School of ICS. Last June’s event challenged students to develop apps that exploit data for a “smart” campus while preserving user privacy. Organized by UCI Postdoc fellow Roberto Yus, the focus on user privacy stems from the TIPPERS (Testbed for IoT-based Privacy-Preserving PERvasive Spaces) project, which is part of DARPA’s Brandeis program.

Two of the four Hackathon teams selected to advance completed their prototypes:

ZotBins is a waste-auditing app that monitors trash levels and helps users locate trash and recycling bins (developed by Joshua Cao, Derek Feng, Marshall Nguyen and Owen Yang).
CoffeeTime (previously the Schedule Optimizer Assistant) helps users find the quickest cup of coffee on campus (developed by Zhaofeng Li, Yathish Gangolli, Zihan Chen, Tianyi Yang and Junlin Wang).

Yus says that each team will receive the $2,000 cash prize, noting that both came up with useful apps. ZotBins aims to increase recycling, optimize work for janitors and help identify where more trash cans are needed. CoffeeTime can estimate your walk and wait times for three campus coffee shops and could eventually be extended to include restaurants.
Furthermore, Yus highlights the fact that the teams developed the apps with an emphasis on user privacy. “Apps often collect and store everything, but these two teams collect and process only the information they need, and then they discard it. They are very conscious of the privacy of their users.”
In addition to these two apps, students in the Information Systems Group (Sumaya Almanee, Sameera Ghayyur, Eun-Jeong Shin, Dhrubajyoti Ghosh, Rushabh Shah and Karthik Gajulapalli) developed four other prototypes:

Concierge is a smart assistant that can help you find people, rooms and events in DBH.
Noodle is a smart meeting organizer that lets you select cameras or microphones to record your meetings.
Self-Awareness tracks your DBH interactions so you know where you spend most of your time and with whom (it can even track how many flights of stairs you’ve climbed).
Building Analytics analyzes DBH occupancy by floor, region and room, which should help administrators identify peak hours of use.

The apps leverage information about the location of people in DBH from different sensors installed in the building, but Yus emphasizes that by default, the apps don’t share any of that data. “We’re focusing on privacy by design,” he says, so the user has to set up permissions to determine who can access the information.
All six apps are currently being tested by a group of 30-40 users. Yus hopes to launch the apps to everyone in DBH toward the end of the month, so stay tuned for more information. He also plans to host another IoT Hackathon this year, again focused on privacy in smart spaces. Participants will have access to privacy technologies developed in collaboration with Carnegie Mellon University, Duke University, the University of Massachusetts and others through the Brandeis program. More information will be available on the TIPPERS website in the following months.
—Shani Murray
ICS held its first IoT Hackathon in June 2017.
 
« Alumni Spotlight: Vince Steckler ’80 on Solving Problems, Giving Back, and Embracing FailureTsudik Awarded Visiting Professorship at TU Dresden »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




