https://www.cs.uci.edu/klefstad-named-2017-lecturer-of-the-year




Klefstad named 2017 Lecturer of the Year 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Klefstad named 2017 Lecturer of the Year
April 14, 2017 Ray Klefstad, a lecturer in the Department of Computer Science, has been awarded the honor of 2017 Lecturer of the Year. In order to be considered, the campus community must first nominate individuals to be recognized for excellence in undergraduate teaching. Nominees are then competitively selected by members of the Council on Teaching, Learning, & Student Experience, the Office of the Vice Provost for the Division of Teaching & Learning, and the Center for Engaged Instruction.

Klefstad will formally accept the award on May 4, 2017 at UCI’s University Student Center during the 24th Annual Celebration of Teaching. In addition to the engraved glass award, recipients receive a $1,000 contribution to their professional development account. During the same event, Computer Science Professor Alex Ihler will also be recognized as a Dean’s Honoree for Excellence in Undergraduate Education.
Klefstad (Ph.D. ’88, M.S. ’82, B.S. ’81) is a proud UCI alumnus, and over the course of 30 years of teaching in ICS has won some 15 UCI teaching awards, including numerous Outstanding Professor awards, an Outstanding Non-Senate Teacher Award and Best Professor Award. This is Klefstad’s first year accepting the Lecturer of the Year Award and the first time an ICS lecturer in computer science has been awarded in this category at the campus level.
« Irvine, Newport Beach rated among top cybersecurity hubs in U.S.Ph.D. student wins 2017 Google Fellowship in systems and networking »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




