https://www.cs.uci.edu/two-cs-grad-students-named-facebook-fellowship-finalists




Two CS grad students named Facebook Fellowship finalists 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Two CS grad students named Facebook Fellowship finalists
April 18, 2017 Laleh Aghababaie Beni and Khanh Nguyen, both Ph.D. students in the Department of Computer Science, were announced 2017 Facebook Fellowship Finalists this month.
The Facebook Fellowship Program is designed to encourage and support promising doctoral students in research related to computer science and engineering. Of the more than 800 applicants who apply worldwide, only 13 were selected as fellows.

Finalists are among the top 5 percent of applicants worldwide. Applications are evaluated based on the strength of the student’s research statement, publication record and recommendation letters.
Beni is a Ph.D. candidate whose research focuses on machine learning algorithms on large datasets.
Nguyen is a Ph.D. candidate specializing in distributed systems, networking and operating systems research. In addition to being a 2017 Facebook Fellowship Finalist, he is also a 2017 Google Ph.D. Fellow.

« Ph.D. student wins 2017 Google Fellowship in systems and networkingTsudik awarded NSF grant for IoT research »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




