https://www.cs.uci.edu/cs-research-showcase-continues-to-provide-a-platform-for-students-to-showcase-their-work




CS Research Showcase continues to provide a platform for students to showcase their work 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


CS Research Showcase continues to provide a platform for students to showcase their work
June 9, 2017 The second annual Computer Science Research Showcase brought together the most talented graduate students to demonstrate their research activity in UCI’s Department of Computer Science. This year’s showcase, which was held on May 10 in Donald Bren Hall, featured a morning of presentations from computer science faculty, including Gene Tsudik and Chen Li, followed by an afternoon of posters, demos and an awards reception.
“The students were highly engaged during the event and did a great job with their presentations,” said Ardalan Amiri Sani, who hosted the event with fellow computer science assistant professor Shuang Zhao. “I believe that the research showcase event provides a great opportunity for our students to advertise their research and to interact with their peers and other visitors.”


The three demo winners announced at the conclusion of the event were “Automated Projector Calibration and Registration for Arbitrarily-Shaped Multi-Projector Systems” by Mahdi Abbaspour Tehani; “Brain Visualization” by Nitin Agarwal; and “Social Data Analytics with AsterixDB and Cloudberry” by Taewoo Kim and co-presenters Jianfeng Jia, Xikui Wang, Gift Sinthong, Chen Luo and Shengjie Xu.
The top poster award went to “Towards Privacy-aware IoT Smart Spaces” by Primal Pappachan, while students Yu Guo and Zahra Montazeri were runners-up for their poster “High-Fidelity Modeling and Simulation of Complex Materials.”
Overall, the computer science students presented some 39 posters and demos this year, up from 30 presentations the previous year. Research areas included AI, big data, computer vision, databases, graphics, IoT, mobile systems, operating systems, privacy and security, reconfigurable hardware, and scientific computing.
Computer science professors Sharad Mehrotra, Elaheh (Eli) Bozorgzadeh, Rina Dechter and Marco Levorato assisted in rating the submissions as faculty judges.
Amiri Sani is already planning next year’s event with the goal of continuing the tradition of giving students a platform to showcase their research. “Our hope is to expand the size of the event and attract even more external attendees next year,” he said.
View photos from the event here.
« Smyth listed as one of ‘20 Data Science Professors To Know’Sacramento Bee: “Trump took away your internet privacy. A California legislator wants to give it back” (Jordan mentioned) »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




