https://www.cs.uci.edu/forbes-help-hackers-stole-my-password-just-by-listening-to-me-type-on-skype-tsudik-research




Forbes: “Help! Hackers Stole My Password Just By Listening To Me Type On Skype!” (Tsudik research) 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Forbes: “Help! Hackers Stole My Password Just By Listening To Me Type On Skype!” (Tsudik research)
July 6, 2017 For many, everyday life involves sitting in front of a computer typing endless emails, presentation documents and reports. Then there’s the frequent typing of passwords just to get access to those files. But beware: researchers have hacked together a tool that can harvest what’s being typed simply by listening to the sounds of the keys.
They’ve created the Skype&Type program for snooping on Skype users by learning what frequency matches with specific keys on a laptop. And in June Forbes became a guinea pig for the researchers, PhD student Daniele Lain, Prof. Mauro Conti, and Dr. Alberto Compagno from the University of Padua, and Prof. Gene Tsudik from the University of California, Irvine. The headline from the first field test? Their prototype works. And it stole a randomly-chosen password within seconds of us typing it out.
Read the full story at Forbes.
« ICS launches IoT Hackathon to discover student talent who can develop a UCI ‘smart’ campusSingh to deliver machine learning talk at July OC ACM Meetup »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




