https://www.cs.uci.edu/singh-to-deliver-machine-learning-talk-at-july-oc-acm-meetup




Singh to deliver machine learning talk at July OC ACM Meetup 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Singh to deliver machine learning talk at July OC ACM Meetup
July 6, 2017 Assistant Professor of Computer Science Sameer Singh is scheduled to deliver a talk on machine learning to the Orange County ACM Chapter on Wednesday, July 12, 2017.  Singh’s talk, titled “Explaining Black-Box Machine Learning Predictions,” will include approaches to explain the predictions of any classifiers in an interpretable and faithful method.
The meeting is the fourth installment of the OC chapter’s 2017 bi-monthly evening program series co-sponsored by the IEEE Orange County Computer Society.
Singh will be the third ICS professor to guest speak, following Dean Marios Papaefthymiou and Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Michael Franz.

The Meetup will be held at The Cove at UC Irvine Applied Innovation and is free to the public. Doors open for networking at 6:30 p.m. followed by the presentation at 7 p.m. As with previous events, the talk will be video recorded and available for later viewing online. Please RSVP online if you plan to attend the event.
Singh’s current research is focused on the development of large-scale and interpretable machine learning applied to information extraction and natural language processing. He has been awarded the Adobe Research Data Science Faculty Award and was selected as a DARPA Riser, among many other noteworthy achievements in his field.
« Forbes: “Help! Hackers Stole My Password Just By Listening To Me Type On Skype!” (Tsudik research)The Wrap: “Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg’s Artificial Intelligence Divide: Experts Weigh In” (Singh quoted) »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




