https://www.cs.uci.edu/mazmanian-regan-and-shahbaba-appointed-decade-graduate-faculty-mentors




Mazmanian, Regan and Shahbaba appointed DECADE Graduate Faculty Mentors 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Mazmanian, Regan and Shahbaba appointed DECADE Graduate Faculty Mentors
August 4, 2017 The UCI Office of Inclusive Excellence (OIE) has appointed ICS professors Melissa Mazmanian, Amelia Regan and Babak Shahbaba to serve as DECADE (Diverse Educational Community and Doctoral Experience) Graduate Faculty Mentors. Mazmanian will serve as a mentor for the graduate program in informatics, Shahbaba will be the mentor for the graduate program in statistics; and Regan will serve as a mentor for the graduate programs in computer science, network systems and transportation science. They each will serve two-year terms that started in July.

The UCI DECADE Graduate Mentor Program is dedicated to nurturing a positive diversity climate within academic programs by serving as a resource between graduate students and faculty across campus. As DECADE Faculty Members, Mazmanian, Shahbaba and Regan will collaborate with ICS equity advisors, senior faculty members and graduate students from their respective departments to promote an inclusive climate for students. The program’s goal is to increase the number of minorities and women in their disciplines receiving doctoral degrees at UCI. 
Established in 2015, the DECADE Program was initially supported by the U.S. Department of Education’s Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (FIPSE) grant. DECADE is now housed under the OIE and has become a powerful tool to promote an affirmative climate for graduate education on campus, as well as a means to grow the knowledge and innovation workforce of tomorrow. 
DECADE Graduate Program Mentors must be tenured faculty members who have demonstrated a commitment to diversity and equity at the undergraduate, graduate or faculty levels, and must be experienced in advising, training and graduating doctoral students. 

« Tsudik receives ICCCN Best Paper AwardImmunant: Protecting millions of mobile users behind the scenes »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




