https://www.cs.uci.edu/immunant-protecting-millions-of-mobile-users-behind-the-scenes




Immunant: Protecting millions of mobile users behind the scenes 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Immunant: Protecting millions of mobile users behind the scenes
August 21, 2017 From left to right: Andrei Homescu, Per Larsen, Stephen Crane, Michael Franz and Immunant’s summer intern, Julian Lettner.
A tiny computer security company has been working quietly at the Cove to develop ways of protecting mobile systems against hackers. Immunant builds specialized tools for developers. The company’s software transforms the way code is compiled, linked, and loaded by a host operating system. This three-person company’s reputation in the security community belies its actual size. “Our industry is relationship-heavy,” says Stephen Crane, Immunant’s CTO. “We have built up credibility over years of collaborations. This is a premium advantage in a field with a huge amount of snake oil. A lot of companies promise more security than they can deliver on.” Meanwhile, the tools Immunant is developing could improve system security for hundreds of millions of mobile network users by safeguarding the computers that act as the nodes of communications networks from hacking incursions.
Immunant was co-founded by three graduate and post-doctoral researchers at the UCI School of Information and Computing Sciences (ICS); Per Larsen, Andrei Homescu, and Crane. Their advisor, UCI Professor of Computing Science, Michael Franz, also has a stake in the startup.
Read the full story on the UCI Applied Innovation website.
« Mazmanian, Regan and Shahbaba appointed DECADE Graduate Faculty MentorsLevorato, Kia awarded NSF grant for Urban IoT research »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




