https://www.cs.uci.edu/husky-or-wolf-using-a-black-box-learning-model-to-avoid-adoption-errors




Husky or wolf? Using a black box learning model to avoid adoption errors 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Husky or wolf? Using a black box learning model to avoid adoption errors
August 24, 2017 Say you want to adopt a dog, from a picture, and you task your machine learning system to classify the image as either a husky, which would be safe to adopt, or a wolf, which probably is not a good idea. Can you get that photograph classified with certainty? “Because researchers don’t have insights into what is going on they can easily be misled,” said Sameer Singh, assistant professor in the UCI Department of Computer Science. “Classification is core to machine learning,” said Singh, describing ‘black box’ machine learning predictions at the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) July 12 meeting at the Cove. Machine learning is pervasive in our lives—from email to games. “It’s in our phones,” said Singh, a machine learning and natural language processing expert. “It is in our houses. It is basically everywhere.”One of his students created a wolf/dog classifier in a few hours that seemed to work—at first.
Read the full story on the UCI Applied Innovation website.
« Dutt, Levorato awarded NSF grant for healthcare IoT researchACM SIGMM Records: “An interview with Prof. Ramesh Jain” »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




