https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-magazine-a-picture-of-health-jain-quoted




UCI Magazine: “A Picture of Health” (Jain quoted) 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI Magazine: “A Picture of Health” (Jain quoted)
October 18, 2017 Ramesh Jain, Donald Bren Professor of Information & Computer Sciences and director of the UCI Institute for Future Health, sees fertile ground when it comes to making advances in human health and healthcare delivery. With the advent of smartphones and wearable devices, he’s working on developing a one-of-a-kind technology to make health monitoring as common as checking your email.
“We should be focused on health 24/7,” Jain says. “Current healthcare evolved in days when we did not have technology. It evolved in a time when infectious diseases were predominant. Those two things have changed. When you start dealing with chronic diseases, you have to rethink the healthcare system completely.”
Read the full story here.
« ACM SIGMM Records: “An interview with Prof. Ramesh Jain”ICS Welcomes 9 New Faculty for 2017 »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




