http://www.ics.uci.edu/~redmiles/inf143-SQ08









INF 143 Class Home Page












 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 


 
IN4MATX 143: Information Visualization
 
Class Home Page
 




→
Class Home
 
Academic Honesty
 
Schedule,  Lecture, & Assignments
 
Links & Resources
 
 


Administrative
  Information
 
Instructor: David Redmiles
EMail: redmiles@ics.uci.edu 
Office: DBH
  5038
Office Hours: Tuesday’s
  12:30-1:30 p.m. (with occasional exceptions)
 
Lecture: Tu Th 3:30-4:50 
Classroom: DBH
  1300
Course Code: 37080
 
 
Teaching Assistant:
  Erik Trainer
Email: etrainer@uci.edu
Office: DBH
  5231
Office Hours: Wednesday’s
  11-12 (and by email appointment)
 
Discussion: MWF
  3:00- 4:50 (as announced)
Classroom: DBH
  1300
Course Code: 37081
 
 


 




 


Course Description
  and Prerequisites
 
143
  Information Visualization (4). Introduction to interactive visual
  interfaces for large datasets, and to principles of human visual perception
  and human computer interaction that inform their design. Various applications
  for data analysis and monitoring are discussed. Prerequisite: Informatics 131
  or Informatics 43 or ICS 52. 
 


 




 


Policies
 
Add/drop: If
  you wish to add this class, do so before the end of Week 2.
 
Academic honesty: Please
  familiarize yourself with the latest UCI academic honesty policy: http://www.editor.uci.edu/catalogue/appx/appx.2.htm.
  The consequences of academic dishonesty are not worth the risks.
 
Announcements:
  Critical announcements will be emailed to your UCI Net ID / Login. Please
  make it is set up properly and being forwarded to whichever account you
  normally read email from. Many other announcements will be made in class. If
  you miss class, please check with a friend to learn about any in-class
  announcements that may be important to you.
 
Web Page, Course
  Materials, Posted Assignments: The Web page for
  the class, including the schedule of topics and the posting of assignments,
  is subject to update. Check it frequently and be sure to refresh / reload the
  Web pages when you browse them. 
 
Email
  correspondence: All email to me or the TA must include the class number, IN4MATX 143, in the subject line. If
  you do not get a response to the email in 72 hours, resend it.
 


 




 


Course Mechanics and
  Grading
 
Lectures,
  Attendance, Participation: will focus on principles and examples, and include
  a great deal of discussion. Therefore class attendance and participation is
  required. Email the TA if you will be absent. 
 
Course Materials: Materials
  for the lectures will be drawn from Web sites, provided in power point
  slides, some articles from digital libraries, and occasional readings on
  reserve at the campus libraries. There will be occasional guest lecturers.
 
Weekly Assignment:
  For each week, students will find one example visualization to share with the
  class and discuss (generally) pros and cons. “Pros and cons” will usually be
  structured according to a lecture theme for that week or based on a specific project homework. The example needs to be
  accessible on a Web site or in a digital form for sharing.
 
Project
  Assignments: Three individual project homeworks
  are planned with one or two requiring programming.
 
No Final Exam or
  Midterm.
 
 
Grading

50% Project
       Assignments 
40% Weekly
       Assignment / Presentation
10% Other
       Class Participation 

 
 


 




 


 


 



 
 
 



