http://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1154



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



April 17,  2017


Ph.D. student wins 2017 Google Fellowship in systems and networking



Khanh Nguyen, a Ph.D. candidate in UCI’s Department of Computer Science, has been selected as a 2017 Google Ph.D. Fellow for North America in the systems and networking category. The Google Ph.D. Fellowship program recognizes and supports outstanding graduate students doing exceptional research in computer science and related disciplines. The fellowship includes being matched with a Google Research Mentor and a monetary award that will directly support student expenses, as well as a stipend.


The fellowship program is known for its support of hundreds of future faculty, industry researchers, entrepreneurs and innovators since its inception in 2009. This year, 33 recipients from North America, Europe and the Middle East were chosen as fellows in nine categories: algorithms, optimizations and markets; human-computer interaction; machine learning; machine perception, speech technology and computer vision; natural language processing; privacy and security; programming languages and software engineering; structured data and database management; and systems and networking.

In order to be selected for the honor, students must be full-time graduate students pursuing a Ph.D. and must have completed graduate coursework by the fall of the award year, when the fellowship begins. Students cannot directly apply, but must be nominated by an eligible university. Each entity may only nominate two students, making the award extremely competitive.

Nguyen currently works under his advisor Professor Guoqing (Harry) Xu, assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science. His research includes ways to develop practical techniques to solve scalability issues in big data systems. He earned both his M.S. and B.S. in Computer Science from UCI in 2015 and 2012, respectively. In addition to becoming a Google Ph.D. Fellow this year, Nguyen is also a 2017 Facebook Fellowship Finalist.



Ph.D. student wins 2017 Google Fellowship in systems and networking

< Previous
 M.S. Informatics ranked among top 35 best IT masters for 2017
            
Next >
 Climatepedia to lead a UCI delegation during Earth Day's March for Science rally

            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











