https://www.cs.uci.edu/irvine-newport-beach-rated-among-top-cybersecurity-hubs-in-u-s




Irvine, Newport Beach rated among top cybersecurity hubs in U.S. 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Irvine, Newport Beach rated among top cybersecurity hubs in U.S.
April 3, 2017 Cybersecurity professionals looking at top destinations for work-life balance will want to consider Newport Beach and Irvine,according to a recent report by GoodCall LLC, which ranked the Orange Counties No. 4 and No. 26, respectively, out of 221 U.S. cities for available cybersecurity jobs and high salary potential, as well as affordable living and generous amenities. The two Southern California cities ranked high for offering continuous sunshine, coastal living and master-planned convenience to residents. In particular, Newport Beach scored high on salary and amenities potential for new and seasoned cybersecurity experts alike.
When it came to the number of jobs available in the cybersecurity sector, Irvine was ranked No. 34, coming out just above Newport Beach at No. 35.

Other California cities that made it onto list include Carlsbad (14), Redondo Beach (17), Palo Alto (22), Santa Barbara (25), San Francisco (28), Santa Clara (34), Santa Monica (38) Pleasanton (39), Santa Maria (40), Mountain View (43) and Sunnyvale (49).
Cybersecuirty has been considered a hot-button issue for the last several years, with many high-profile incidents making headlines in recent months such as the recent release of classified documents by WikiLeaks and the current FBI investigation into allegations of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Many influential companies like Cylance Inc., CrowdStrike Inc. and SecureAuth Corp. – all based in Irvine – have helped to turn the city into an emerging cybersecurity hub.
California-based Cybersecurity Ventures predicts that consumers and companies will spend an estimated $1 trillion globally in the next five years on cybersecurity needs. This equates an annual growth rate of up to 15 percent through 2021.
ICS has long been at the forefront of cybersecurity in education, housing Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Michael Franz’sSecure Systems and Software Laboratory, and Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Gene Tsudik’s Secure Computing and Networking Center (SCONCE), which focuses on research for protecting information and computing. More recently, ICS played an instrumental role in the launch of UCI’s new Cybersecurity Policy and Research Institute (CPRI), a multidisciplinary research center dedicated to developing solutions to cybersecurity challenges at the intersection of technology, law and policy.

« Franz to discuss ‘Cyber Attacks and Defense’ at March 8 OC ACM Chapter MeetingKlefstad named 2017 Lecturer of the Year »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




