https://www.cs.uci.edu/franz-to-discuss-cyber-attacks-and-defense-at-march-8-oc-acm-chapter-meeting




Franz to discuss ‘Cyber Attacks and Defense’ at March 8 OC ACM Chapter Meeting 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Franz to discuss ‘Cyber Attacks and Defense’ at March 8 OC ACM Chapter Meeting
March 3, 2017 Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Michael Franz will be discussing Cyber Attacks and Defenses: Trends, Challenges, and Outlook at the March 8 Meetup for the Orange County ACM Chapter. The Meetup is from 6:30-9:30 p.m. on March 8 at The Cove at UCI Applied Innovation. His talk will present a time-line of attacks and defenses, clearly illustrating a “cat and mouse game” in which defenses are almost always reactive to attacks that have already happened. Franz will also discuss his vision of how to get ahead of the attackers, and close by stating why, in spite of the bleak situation today, he is confident that we will eventually be able to stop most kinds of cyber attacks completely.

This event, like all Orange County ACM Chapter meetings, are free  and open to the public. For more information and online registration, visit the event’s Meetup page.
The Orange County ACM Chapter meets bi-monthly at The Cove at UCI Applied Innovation. According to the hosts, there will be plenty of free parking, light refreshments and time to network with others prior to the start of the formal meeting program.

« UCI launches new professional master’s in cyber-physical systemsIrvine, Newport Beach rated among top cybersecurity hubs in U.S. »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




