https://www.cs.uci.edu/2017-ics-deans-award-winners




2017 ICS Dean’s Award Winners 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


2017 ICS Dean’s Award Winners
February 23, 2017 Five accomplished ICS faculty are awarded for their innovative research, exemplar service, student mentorship and exceptional teaching skills.
Congratulations to the 2016-2017 recipients of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Dean’s Awards, where accomplished ICS faculty are awarded for their innovative research, exemplar service, student mentorship and exceptional teaching skills. Recipients are peer- and self-nominated, garnering a certificate and a $500 discretionary award for their achievement.

This year’s awardees are:
Dean’s Award for Research
Michael Carey
Carey was recognized for his contributions to the creation of data management platforms.
Dean’s Mid-Career Award for Research
Hernando Ombao
Ombao is awarded for his contributions to statistical methods for the analysis of time-series and spatio-temporal data.
Dean’s Award for Service
Gillian Hayes
Hayes receives her award for her leadership in launching the new master’s program in human computer interaction and design.
Dean’s Award for Graduate Student Mentoring
Melissa Mazmanian
Mazmanian is recognized for her inspiring and dedicated mentoring of graduate students in informatics.
Dean’s Award for Undergraduate Teaching
Jim Jones
Jones receives he award for his excellent and innovative instruction of undergraduates in software engineering.
View a list of past Dean’s Award winners.
During the award ceremony on Feb. 15, which took place during a school-wide faculty meeting, ICS Dean Marios Papaefthymiou also handed out special recognition awards to Professor Jessica Utts for her years of service as the former Chair of the Department of Statistics, and to Computer Science Professor Tony Givargis for his years of service as the former ICS Associate Dean for Student Affairs. Both Utts and Givargis were unable to accept their awards at last year’s ceremony. 

« Computational Linguistics Olympiad  helps UCI reach high school studentsUCI launches new professional master’s in cyber-physical systems »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




