https://www.cs.uci.edu/tsudiks-biometrics-security-research-paper-featured-in-february-issue-of-cacm




Tsudik’s biometrics security research paper featured in February issue of CACM 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Tsudik’s biometrics security research paper featured in February issue of CACM
January 30, 2017 Communications of the ACM (CACM), the monthly flagship publication of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), is publishing an abridged version of a research paper co-authored by Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Gene Tsudik, titled  “Authentication Using Pulse-Response Biometrics,” in the Research Highlights section of its February 2017 issue. Tsudik’s paper originally appeared at the 2014 Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium. According to the paper’s abstract, the paper proposes a new biometric based on the human body’s response to an electric square pulse signal, called pulse-response, and how it can be used to enhance security.

The CACM magazine is known for its “trusted insights for computing’s leading professionals.”Every CACM issue contains two such research papers selected from top computer science conferences from the last two to three years; each selected paper undergoes an additional review process. Publication of a technical paper in the widely read CACM is highly regarded. Previous computer science faculty featured in the magazine’s Research Highlights section include Alexander Ihler’s paper “Nonparametric Belief Propagation” in October 2010 and Padhraic Smyth’s paper  “Creativity Helps Influence Prediction Precision” in April 2010.
Tsudik is a Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science at UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences and vice chair of graduate studies in Computer Science. He is also a Fulbright Scholar, Fulbright Specialist (twice), a fellow of ACM, a fellow of IEEE, a fellow of AAAS, and a member of Academia Europaea. From 2009 to 2015 he served as Editor-in-Chief of ACM Transactions on Information and Systems Security (TISSEC). He is also a faculty member of the Center for Embedded and Cyber-physical Systems at UC Irvine.
View a video that highlights the research in the paper:

"Authentication Using Pulse-Response Biometrics," a Research Highlights article in the February 2017 CACM, describes an almost entirely passive biometric.
« OC Register: ICS alumnus, professional poker player Jason Les competing against a bot for $200KComputational Linguistics Olympiad  helps UCI reach high school students »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




