https://www.cs.uci.edu/cylance-commits-50k-to-ucis-center-for-machine-learning-and-intelligent-systems-to-support-seminar-series-ph-d-recruitment




Cylance commits $50K to UCI’s Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems to support seminar series, Ph.D. recruitment 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Cylance commits $50K to UCI’s Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems to support seminar series, Ph.D. recruitment
December 9, 2016 Irvine-based Cylance Inc. has provided a gift donation of $50,000 to Computer Science Professors Alex Ihler and Padhraic Smyth to support the activities of UC Irvine’s Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems (CML). The funds will be used to support the Center’s weekly seminar series, to bring distinguished speakers to campus and for recruitment of new Ph.D. students in machine learning. Founded in 2012, Cylance now has 750 employees to help develop cybersecurity software using machine learning and artificial intelligence techniques. Cylance is also a corporate partner of the UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences.
The first distinguished speaker seminar on Jan. 27, 2017 will be by Ruslan Salakhutdinov, a professor of computer science at CMU who was recently appointed director of artificial intelligence research at Apple.
“We are very grateful for this generous gift from Cylance, which will significantly enhance our ability to bring in leading researchers to speak at UCI and attract the brightest Ph.D. students to participate in our machine learning research program,” said Smyth.
« UCI ranked 7th best university for coding in U.S. by HackerRankTwo ICS Ph.D. students receive 2017 UCI Public Impact Fellowships »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




