https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-team-places-first-in-regional-acm-competition-advances-to-international-finals-in-may




UCI team places first in regional ACM competition, advances to international finals in May 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI team places first in regional ACM competition, advances to international finals in May
December 1, 2016 The oldest, largest and most prestigious programming contest in the world, otherwise known as the Association for Computing Machinery’s International Collegiate Programming Contest (ACM ICPC), will host three UC Irvine students at its 41st annual world finals in Rapid City, S.D. from May 20-25, 2017.

ICS congratulates Dan Chen, Waitaya Krongapiradee and Pasha Khosravi from UC Irvine’s “filter” team for winning the ACM ICPC Southern California regional contest on Nov. 12, 2016. The team took first place out of 76 squads from UCLA, USC and Caltech, among many others, by solving nine problems within a total time of 1,189 seconds. The ICS team, sponsored by computer science senior lecturer Richard Pattis and coached by graduate student Timothy Johnson, will be training diligently over the next few months for a chance at programming glory. If they succeed, they’ll have proven themselves the top university team out of 2,736 schools from more than 102 countries on six continents.
According to the ACM ICPC world finals fact sheet, “The contest fosters creativity, teamwork, and innovation in building new software programs, and enables students to test their ability to perform under pressure.”
To Dan, Waitaya and Pasha – we wish you luck and may the code be ever in your favor!
— Photo courtesy of ACM UC Irvine Chapter

« Tech Times: “Hackers can steal your data by recording keystroke sounds over Skype” (Tsudik quoted)UCI ranked 7th best university for coding in U.S. by HackerRank »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




