https://www.cs.uci.edu/event/wen-mei-w-hwu




Wen-mei W. Hwu 



 














































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates





 « All Events


This event has passed.
Wen-mei W. Hwu

February 10, 2017 @ 11:00 am - 12:00 pm 



Event Navigation

« Franz KAASHOEK
Patrick McDaniel »









Speaker: Wen-mei W. Hwu

Professor and Sanders-AMD Chair
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Title: Innovative Applications and Technology Pivots – A Perfect Storm in Computing
Abstract: Since early 2000, we have been experiencing two very important developments in computing. One is that a tremendous amount of resources have been invested into innovative applications such as first-principle based models, deep learning and cognitive computing. Many application domains are questioning the conventional
“it is too expensive” thinking that led to inaccuracies and missed opportunities. The other part is that the industry has been taking a technological path where application performance and power efficiency vary by more than two orders of magnitude depending on their parallelism, heterogeneity, and locality. Today, most of the top supercomputers in the world are heterogeneous parallel computing systems. New standards such as the Heterogeneous Systems Architecture (HSA) are emerging to facilitate software development. Much has been and needs to be learned about algorithms, languages, compilers and hardware architecture in these movements. What are the applications that continue to drive the technology development? How hard is it to program these systems today? How will we be programming these systems in the future? How will innovations in memory and storage devices present further opportunities and challenges? What is the impact of longterm software engineering cost on applications? In this talk, I will present some research opportunities and challenges that are brought about by this perfect storm.
Bio: Wen-mei W. Hwu is a Professor and holds the Sanders-AMD Endowed Chair in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His research interests are in the area of architecture, implementation, compilation, and algorithms for parallel computing. He is the chief scientist
of Parallel Computing Institute and director of the IMPACT research group (www.impact.crhc.illinois.edu). He is a co-founder and CTO of MulticoreWare. For his contributions in research and teaching, he received the ACM SigArch Maurice Wilkes Award, the ACM Grace Murray Hopper Award, the Tau Beta Pi Daniel C. Drucker Eminent Faculty Award, the ISCA Influential Paper Award, the MICRO Test-of-Time Paper Award, the IEEE Computer Society B. R. Rau Award and the Distinguished Alumni Award in Computer Science of the University of California, Berkeley. He is a fellow of IEEE and ACM. He directs the IBM-UIUC Center for Cognitive Computing Systems Research, UIUC CUDA Center of Excellence and serves as one of the principal investigators of the NSF Blue Waters Petascale computer project. Dr. Hwu received his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from the University of California, Berkeley.
Download PDF


+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 February 10, 2017 

 Time: 


					11:00 am - 12:00 pm				

Event Category: Distinguished Lecture Series



Organizer



				hbyrnes@ics.uci.edu			

					Email:				

					hbyrnes@ics.uci.edu				





 Venue 

 DBH 6011 



Donald Bren Hall

Irvine,
CA
92697
United States

+ Google Map 

 Phone: 
 (949) 824-7651 






 



Event Navigation

« Franz KAASHOEK
Patrick McDaniel »









Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 







