https://www.cs.uci.edu/event/patrick-mcdaniel




Patrick McDaniel 



 














































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates





 « All Events


This event has passed.
Patrick McDaniel

February 24, 2017 @ 11:00 am - 12:00 pm 



Event Navigation

« Wen-mei W. Hwu
Hector Garcia-Molina »









Speaker: Patrick McDaniel

Distingushed Professor, School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Pennsylvania State University

Title: Tracing in the Arc of Smartphone Application Security
Abstract: The introduction of smart phones in the mid-2000s forever changed the way users interact with data and computation—and through it prompted a renaissance of digital innovation. Yet, at the same time, the architectures, applications and services that fostered this new reality fundamentally altered the relationship between users and security and privacy. In this talk I map the scientific community’s evolving efforts over the last decade in evaluating smart phone application security and privacy. I consider several key scientific questions and explore the methods and tools used to answer them. Through this exposition, I show how our joint understanding of adversary and industry practices have matured over time, and briefly consider how these results have informed and shaped technical public policy in the United States. I conclude with
a discussion of the open problems and opportunities in mobile device security.How hard is it to program these systems today? How will we be programming these systems in the future? How will innovations in memory and storage devices present further opportunities and challenges? What is the impact of longterm software engineering cost on applications? In this talk, I will present some research opportunities and challenges that are brought about by this perfect storm.
Bio: Patrick McDaniel is a Distinguished Professor in the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Pennsylvania State University, Fellow of the IEEE and ACM, and Director of the Institute for Networking and Security Research. Professor McDaniel is also the program manager and lead scientist for the Army Research Laboratory’s Cyber-Security Collaborative Research Alliance. Patrick’s research focuses on a wide range of topics in computer and network security and technical public policy. Prior to joining Penn State in 2004, he was a senior research staff member at AT&T LabsResearch.
Download PDF


+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 February 24, 2017 

 Time: 


					11:00 am - 12:00 pm				

Event Category: Distinguished Lecture Series



Organizer



				hbyrnes@ics.uci.edu			

					Email:				

					hbyrnes@ics.uci.edu				





 Venue 

 DBH 6011 



Donald Bren Hall

Irvine,
CA
92697
United States

+ Google Map 

 Phone: 
 (949) 824-7651 






 



Event Navigation

« Wen-mei W. Hwu
Hector Garcia-Molina »









Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 







