https://www.cs.uci.edu/event/vint-cerf




Vint Cerf 



 














































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates





 « All Events


This event has passed.
Vint Cerf

April 28, 2017 @ 11:00 am - 12:00 pm 



Event Navigation

« Hector Garcia-Molina
2017 Computer Science Research Showcase »









Speaker: Vint Cerf

Vice President and Chief Internet Evangelist, Google

Title: Ethical and Engineering Challenges in the Internet of Things
Abstract: We have a lot of work ahead of us to make the “Internet of Things” the beneficial wave that many expect. Access control to commands and data must be easy to configure and resistant to hijacking. The configuration of large numbers of devices should be easy, even for relatively naive consumers. Software in these devices will have errors and must be correctable. Devices must be able to reject updates from unauthorized sources. Designers need to think about scenarios in which many users have access to and control over devices – and may have differing degrees of access (think: parents, children, house guests. Administrative staff, engineering staff in the case
of industrial applications of IOT.) Programmers, systems engineers, product designers among others must keep in mind a wide range of use scenarios and ask whether user safety and privacy have been preserved.
Bio: At Google, Vint Cerf contributes to global policy development and continued spread of the Internet. Widely known as one of the “Fathers of the Internet,” Cerf is the co-designer of the TCP/IP protocols and the architecture of the Internet. He has served in executive positions at the Internet Society, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, the American Registry for Internet Numbers, MCI, the Corporation for National Research Initiatives and the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency and on the faculty of Stanford University. Vint Cerf sits on US National Science Board and is a Visiting Scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Cerf is a Foreign Member of the Royal Society and Swedish Academy of Engineering, Fellow of the IEEE, ACM, American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, British Computer Society, Worshipful Company of Information Technologists, Worshipful Company of Stationers and is a member of the National Academy of Engineering. Cerf is a recipient of numerous awards and commendations in connection with his work on the Internet, including the US Presidential Medal of Freedom, US National Medal of Technology, the Queen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering, the Prince of Asturias Award, the Japan Prize, the Charles Stark Draper award, the ACM Turing Award, the Legion d’Honneur and 29 honorary degrees.
Download PDF


+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 April 28, 2017 

 Time: 


					11:00 am - 12:00 pm				

Event Category: Distinguished Lecture Series



Organizer



				hbyrnes@ics.uci.edu			

					Email:				

					hbyrnes@ics.uci.edu				





 Venue 

 DBH 6011 



Donald Bren Hall

Irvine,
CA
92697
United States

+ Google Map 

 Phone: 
 (949) 824-7651 






 



Event Navigation

« Hector Garcia-Molina
2017 Computer Science Research Showcase »









Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 







