https://www.cs.uci.edu/event/renee-j-miller




Renée J. Miller 



 














































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates





 « All Events


This event has passed.
Renée J. Miller

May 12, 2017 @ 11:00 am - 12:00 pm 



Event Navigation

« 2017 Computer Science Research Showcase
Manuel Blum »








Speaker: Prof. Renée J. Miller (Computer Science, University of Toronto)

Title: Evaluating Data Integration and Data Curation Systems
Abstract: In this talk, I present some important innovations in data integration research over the last two decades. These include data exchange, which provides a foundation for reasoning about the correctness of transformed data, and the use of declarative mappings in integration, cleaning and more broadly data curation. I discuss how curation research has expanded from the enterprise to consider how to add value to open data, and how big data is changing the nature of curation solutions. While data integration and cleaning are very mature fields, rigorous empirical evaluations of systems are still relatively scarce. I discuss how developments in information integration over the last two decades enable evaluation. I also identify major roadblocks for empirical work including the lack of tools that aid in generating the inputs and gold standard outputs for integration or cleaning tasks in a controlled, effective, and repeatable manner. I give an overview of our efforts to develop such tools and highlight how our tools have been used for streamlining the empirical evaluation of a variety of systems.
Bio: Renée J. Miller is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of Toronto. She has been named fellow of the Royal Society of Canada (Canada’s National Academy), ACM Fellow, and Bell Canada Chair of Information Systems. She received the US Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE), the highest honor bestowed by the United States government on outstanding scientists and engineers beginning their careers. She received an NSF CAREER Award, the Premier’s Research Excellence Award, and an IBM Faculty Award. Her research is in the area of data integration and data curation. She and her co-authors received the ICDT Test-of-Time Award for their influential 2003 paper establishing the foundations of data exchange. She has served on the Board of Trustees of the VLDB Endowment and as President of the Endowment. Her research is funded by NSERC, NSF, IBM, SAP, and Bell Canada among others. She received her PhD in Computer Science from the University of Wisconsin, Madison and Bachelor’s degrees in Mathematics and in Cognitive Science from MIT.

Download PDF


+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 May 12, 2017 

 Time: 


					11:00 am - 12:00 pm				

Event Category: Distinguished Lecture Series



 Venue 

 DBH 6011 



Donald Bren Hall

Irvine,
CA
92697
United States

+ Google Map 

 Phone: 
 (949) 824-7651 








 



Event Navigation

« 2017 Computer Science Research Showcase
Manuel Blum »









Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 







