https://www.cs.uci.edu/event/vivek-tiwari




Vivek Tiwari 



 














































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates





 « All Events


This event has passed.
Vivek Tiwari

April 27, 2018 @ 8:00 am - 5:00 pm 



Event Navigation

« Jeannette M. Wing
Trevor Mudge »








Speaker: Dr. Vivek Tiwari (Intel)
Host: Prof. Nikil Dutt
Title: Power Challenges in the Smart, Connected World (aka Why haven’t we have solved the Power problem yet!)
Abstract: Power consumption issues have been an intense area of research and development for close to three decades now. Power analysis and optimization has moved from “yet another design metric” to something that shapes the technology industry in every segment of computing and communication. During this period the awareness of the underlying metrics for the cause and effects of power consumption has moved from a small set of domain experts to almost everyone associated with the technology industry including Wall Street analysts! It is no longer disputed that power consumption is the limiter to what can be delivered through integrated circuits. And yet the power problem remains fundamental to all design activities and is far from being a “solved problem”. In this talk Vivek will provide a brief primer on the sources of power consumption in ICs and the effect of system design. As someone who has been associated with this field for well over two decades, Vivek will relate the technical aspects of power consumption with the broader trends in computing industry and discuss the need for continued attention to power consumption in traditional as well as emerging areas of design.
Bio: Vivek Tiwari is the Director of Platform Technology Strategy & Management in the Client Computing Group at Intel. His current focus is on Power, Performance and Battery Life. In his 21 years at Intel, Vivek has held a variety of technical and program leadership roles. He was previously the Director of the Software Program Office in the Visual and Parallel Computing Group, responsible for the SW planning and execution coordination of Intel’s 3D Graphics, Media and Display Software. Prior to that Vivek was the Director of Silicon and Platform Program Execution and drove program and ramp management for several generations of Intel’s flagship CPUs and client platforms . In the first part of his career at Intel, Vivek was in R&D, developing tools and techniques for analyzing and reducing power consumption in Intel’s products as part of the Low Power Design Technology group.  Vivek is the recipient of the Intel Achievement Award (2008), SIGARCH Influential ISCA Paper Award (2015) and Best Paper Award at ASP-DAC (1995). He has authored or co-authored chapters in 7 books and 9 journal papers and holds 7 patents.  He has served on the Technical and Executive Committees  of the International Symposium on Low Power Electronics and Design (ISLPED) and on the Technical Program Committees of the Design Automation Conference, VLSI Design Conference and Design Automation and Test Europe. He served as the Technical Chair for ISLPED’04 and General Chair for ISLPED’05. Vivek received a B. Tech degree in Computer Science and Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi, India in 1991, and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Princeton University in 1996.


+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 April 27, 2018 

 Time: 


					8:00 am - 5:00 pm				

Event Category: Seminar Series



Organizer



				Mare Stasik – CS Seminar Administrative Coordinator			

					Phone:				

					(949) 824-7651				

					Email:				

					mstasik@ics.uci.edu				





 Venue 

 DBH 6011 



Donald Bren Hall

Irvine,
CA
92697
United States

+ Google Map 

 Phone: 
 (949) 824-7651 






 



Event Navigation

« Jeannette M. Wing
Trevor Mudge »









Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 







