https://www.cs.uci.edu/event/trevor-mudge-2




Trevor Mudge 



 














































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates





 « All Events


This event has passed.
Trevor Mudge

May 4, 2018 @ 11:00 am - 12:00 pm 



Event Navigation

« Vivek Tiwari
Tom Anderson »









Speaker: Trevor Mudge

Bredt Family Professor of Computer Science & Engineering
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor

Title: The Explosion in Neural Network Chips
Abstract: Until recently the conventional wisdom was that proposing a new chip startup in the US was a bad bet. Recently that perception has changed. There are dozens of startups that have found funding for new chip architectures that perform neural network computations much faster while consuming less power than general purpose CPUs. In fact, over 1.5 billion dollars in venture funding has already been dispersed for such startups. There are several factors behind this change of heart. First has been a slowing of Moore’s Law that has made application specific computers more attractive. Second is the existence of application specific computers that could easily be
repurposed, as exemplified by Digital Signal Processors and Graphics Processors. Finally, the presence of independent foundries such as the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and the United Microelectronics Corporation removed the need for every chip startup to build its own multi-billion dollar fabrication facility. In this talk I will discuss the reasons for this explosion starting with an overview of the problems these machines are targeting. I will then examine the aforementioned factors in more detail. Lastly, I will outline the co-design process that has led to many of the existing solutions. My concluding remarks will discuss the barriers to the success of these new architectures.
Bio: Trevor Mudge received the Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Illinois, Urbana. He is now the Bredt Family Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. He is author of numerous papers on computer architecture, programming languages, VLSI design, and computer vision. He has also chaired 54 theses in these areas. In 2014 he received the ACM/IEEE CS Eckert-Mauchly Award and the University of Illinois Distinguished Alumni Award. He is a Life Fellow of the IEEE, a Fellow of the ACM, and a member of the IET and the British Computer Society.
Download PDF


+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 May 4, 2018 

 Time: 


					11:00 am - 12:00 pm				

Event Categories: Distinguished Lecture Series, Seminar Series



Organizer



				hbyrnes@ics.uci.edu			

					Email:				

					hbyrnes@ics.uci.edu				





 Venue 

 DBH 6011 



Donald Bren Hall

Irvine,
CA
92697
United States

+ Google Map 

 Phone: 
 (949) 824-7651 






 



Event Navigation

« Vivek Tiwari
Tom Anderson »









Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 







