https://www.cs.uci.edu/event/tom-anderson-2




Tom Anderson 



 














































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates





 « All Events


This event has passed.
Tom Anderson

May 11, 2018 @ 11:00 am - 12:00 pm 



Event Navigation

« Trevor Mudge
Eyal de Lara »









Speaker: Thomas Anderson

Warren Francis and Wilma Kolm Bradley Chair
Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science and Engineering
University of Washington

Title: High Performance Operating Systems in the Data Center
Abstract: The ongoing shift of enterprise computing to the cloud provides an opportunity to rethink operating systems for this new setting. I will discuss two specific technologies, kernel bypass for high performance networking and low latency non-volatile storage, and their implications for operating system design. In each case, delivering the performance of the underlying hardware requires novel approaches to the division of labor between hardware, the operating system kernel, and the application library.
Bio: Tom Anderson is the Warren Francis and Wilma Kolm Bradley Chair in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Washington. His research interests span all aspects of building practical, robust, and efficient computer systems, including distributed systems, operating systems, computer networks, multiprocessors, and security. He is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, as well as winner of the USENIX Lifetime Achievement Award, the USENIX STUG Award, the IEEE Koji Kobayashi Computer and Communications Award, the ACM SIGOPS Mark Weiser Award, and the IEEE Communications Society William R. Bennett Prize. He is also an ACM Fellow, past program chair of SIGCOMM and SOSP, and he has co-authored twenty-one award papers and one widely used undergraduate textbook.
For more information, visit www.cs.washington.edu/people/faculty/tom/
Download PDF


+ Google Calendar+ iCal Export



 Details 

 Date: 

 May 11, 2018 

 Time: 


					11:00 am - 12:00 pm				

Event Categories: Distinguished Lecture Series, Seminar Series



Organizer



				hbyrnes@ics.uci.edu			

					Email:				

					hbyrnes@ics.uci.edu				





 Venue 

 DBH 6011 



Donald Bren Hall

Irvine,
CA
92697
United States

+ Google Map 

 Phone: 
 (949) 824-7651 






 



Event Navigation

« Trevor Mudge
Eyal de Lara »









Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 







