https://www.cs.uci.edu/gene-tsudik-and-co-authors-receive-2020-jean-claude-laprie-award




Gene Tsudik and Co-authors Receive 2020 Jean-Claude Laprie Award 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Gene Tsudik and Co-authors Receive 2020 Jean-Claude Laprie Award
May 28, 2020 

More than a decade ago, Distinguished Professor of Computer Science Gene Tsudik helped develop a technique for efficiently and securely verifying that a storage server is faithfully storing its client’s outsourced data. This Provable Data Possession (PDP) technique, which allowed for outsourcing of dynamic data, was developed in a paper, “Scalable and Efficient Provable Data Possession,” that Tsudik co-authored with Giuseppe Ateniese, Roberto Di Pietro and Luigi V. Mancini. This work was presented at the 4th International Conference on Security and Privacy in Communication Networks (SecureComm) in Istanbul, Turkey, in September 2008.

This year, at the 50th IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN 2020), the paper’s co-authors will receive the 2020 Jean-Claude Laprie Award. Since 2012, the award has been presented annually to recognize outstanding papers that have significantly influenced the theory or practice of dependable computing.
The 2020 Award Committee, in recognizing “Scalable and Efficient Provable Data Possession,” highlighted the work’s considerable impact on the field, noting its more than 1,300 citations. “The paper was seminal in allowing the outsourcing of dynamic data, i.e., by efficiently handling operations such as block modification, deletion, and append. This is the first solution to provide these properties and is still unsurpassed.” In addition, the committee addressed how the work has helped bridge the gap between research communities on security and on dependable systems and networks. “As Jean-Claude Laprie used to remind us, security is indeed one of the five fundamental attributes of dependability. For these reasons, the selection committee has unanimously selected this ground-breaking publication which is well-deserving of this award.”
— Shani Murray
« Neftali Watkinson Medina Receives Latino Excellence and Achievement AwardVMware Supports Professor Burtsev’s Next-Generation Safe Operating System »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




