https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-news-national-institute-awards-20-million-in-renewed-funding-to-forensic-science-center




UCI News: “National institute awards $20 million in renewed funding to forensic science center” 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI News: “National institute awards $20 million in renewed funding to forensic science center”
May 18, 2020 
The National Institute of Standards and Technology has awarded $20 million in renewed funding to the Center for Statistics and Applications in Forensic Evidence, an interdisciplinary group of more than 60 participants at the University of California, Irvine and five other U.S. institutions of higher education.

Since its initial funding by NIST in 2015, CSAFE has engaged researchers in the analysis and interpretation of forensic evidence – including ballistics, fingerprints, biological samples, shoe markings and digital data – that’s based on sound statistics and solid science. The center’s work is intended to benefit the justice and legal communities and law enforcement officials from the local to national levels.
“Reliable and accurate forensic evidence is a cornerstone of our justice system, so it’s critical that the analysis of evidence be based on scientifically supported methods and minimally influenced by human error or bias,” said Hal Stern, UCI interim provost and executive vice chancellor and a Chancellor’s Professor of statistics. “UCI researchers have played an important role in CSAFE since its early days and will continue to do so during the next five-year period.”
UCI’s share of the NIST funding is about $4 million. Stern leads the campus’s CSAFE team, which also includes Simon Cole, professor of criminology, law & society; Charless Fowlkes, professor of computer science; Nicholas Scurich, associate professor of psychological science; Padhraic Smyth, Chancellor’s Professor of computer science; and Bill Thompson, professor emeritus of criminology, law & society – as well as graduate and undergraduate students and other researchers.
UCI CSAFE members have worked with the Los Angeles Police Department to determine whether handwritten signatures that are highly complex are more difficult to forge. Others tried to calculate the likelihood of investigators identifying the type of shoe that made an impression found at a crime scene. Yet another group was established to develop new statistical techniques to serve the rapidly growing area of digital forensics.
“I know I speak for the entire CSAFE team here at UCI when I say that the work we do is both vitally important and extremely compelling as an academic pursuit,” Stern said. “We are all proud to be part of a center that has earned the confidence of NIST officials, who have chosen to extend this initiative dedicated to excellence in forensic science.”
Headquartered at Iowa State University, CSAFE also involves researchers at NIST, Carnegie Mellon University, Duke University, the University of Virginia and West Virginia University. The renewed funding will support the center from June 1 through the end of May 2025.
Article originally published at UCI News.
« ICS Researchers Receive $1.6M DARPA Grant to Advance Machine LearningFreethink: “Can Humans Figure Out How Deep Learning AI Thinks?” (Sameer Singh quoted) »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




