https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-news-coronavirus-twitter-map-developed-at-uci-displays-social-media-reactions-to-covid-19-chen-li-quoted




UCI News: “Coronavirus Twitter map developed at UCI displays social media reactions to COVID-19” (Chen Li quoted) 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI News: “Coronavirus Twitter map developed at UCI displays social media reactions to COVID-19” (Chen Li quoted)
April 9, 2020 
To give the public a sense of how social media conversations about COVID-19 are happening in real time, UCI computer scientists have developed and launched a coronavirus Twitter map. The interactive resource visualizes the spatial and temporal distribution of tweets related to the pandemic, allowing users to view the growth and transformation of social media activity as the contagion spreads.  The map is mainly focused on Twitter activity in the U.S. currently.  “This tool gives people a way to locate discussions about the  coronavirus within a region and in a time window,” said computer science  professor Chen Li, who led a six-person development team.

 “We want the tool to help them gain insights on public discussions about this fast-evolving crisis, which can help government agencies and researchers in various domains, such as public health.” Visitors to the site enter keywords and are able to quickly visualize and explore related social media conversations. Backed by a continuously updated stream of data from Twitter, the system offers numerous levels of user customization. The main page is a scatter plot showing thousands of tweets on a map related to the term “coronavirus.” Viewers can switch to a heat map that illustrates the regions of particularly high discussion density or a choropleth map that displays aggregated tweet counts by state, county and city. Also available are location-based coronavirus case numbers obtained from external sources. The team consists of Ph.D. students Sadeem Alsudais, Qiushi Bai and Yicong Huang and undergraduates Shiqi Wu and Tiancheng “Joseph” Zheng, as well as Li. The system is powered by the Li-led Cloudberry and Apache AsterixDB projects in the Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences. The project is supported by the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, the Orange County Health Care Agency, an ICS research award and the Google Cloud Platform research credits program.
Article originally published at UCI News.
« Chemical & Engineering News: “Exploring chemical space: Can AI take us where no human has gone before?” (Pierre Baldi quoted)Professor Franz’s Research Group Invited to Present at Black Hat USA 2020 »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




