https://www.cs.uci.edu/computer-science-majors-preston-tai-and-brandon-tom-appointed-urop-fellows




Computer Science Majors Preston Tai and Brandon Tom Appointed UROP Fellows 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Computer Science Majors Preston Tai and Brandon Tom Appointed UROP Fellows
January 24, 2020 
UCI’s Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP) Faculty Advisory Board has appointed computer science majors Preston Tai and Brandon Tom as UROP Fellows for the 2019-2020 academic year. Tai and Tom will receive $250 in support of their proposed research project, “Python Parallelization in Academia,” under the supervision of Distinguished Professor of Computer Science Alexandru Nicolau.

Brandon Tom
Preston Tai
“Because Python is the first language taught to many new programmers, Preston and I have been trying to create libraries to teach students parallelization in computing,” says Tom. “Our goal is to create a tool that makes these libraries easy enough to use while highlighting key concepts of parallel computing.”
Understanding how parallel computing works is crucial for writing scalable and efficient code.
“This is especially true for industry, where the vast majority of code uses some form of parallel computing,” explains Tai, who is currently an intern at Google. “Despite its importance, parallel computing is not a very popular topic in undergraduate studies [so] we want to make it easier to teach these concepts to students.”
The two juniors will present their work at the UCI Undergraduate Research Symposium on May 16, 2020. Both are grateful for this opportunity to conduct research in their field of interest. “Not many students can say that they participated in research as an undergraduate, and I am extremely thankful I was given this opportunity,” says Tom, who hasn’t yet decided on graduate school or a job in industry. Tai is similarly thankful. “I am grateful for this opportunity to step outside my comfort zone to contribute to academia.” Fellow computer science students could soon be benefiting from their contributions.
“Hopefully with these tools,” notes Tai, “they will be able to write better code when they write production code in industry.”
— Shani Murray
« UCI-led Project Seeks to Combat WildfiresComputer Scientists Make a Splash in Art World Analyzing the Salvator Mundi »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




