http://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/press/view_press?id=100



press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences










Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News / Press releases


Press release



January 27,  2010Search Engine Developed to Help Haiti Victims
Irvine, Calif., January 27, 2010 – Computer Science Professor Chen Li and six students are participating in a global effort of building a web portal called “Person Finder: Haiti Earthquake” (http://haiticrisis.appspot.com/) hosted by Google to help people find, identify, and reunite with the loved ones that have gone missing as a result of the recent earthquake in Haiti.  The ICS team has also developed a search interface available at http://fr.ics.uci.edu/haiti/.
Many volunteers around the world are actively contributing to the “Person Finder: Haiti Earthquake” project in order to collect data about affected people and import the data into a central repository. The team, led by Prof. Li, is contributing records to the repository by crawling and pulling data from various websites, including CNN iReport and Red Cross. The team is also studying how to make the information more discoverable by developing a powerful search interface. Contributing members include students: Sattam Alsubaiee, Alexander Behm, Inci Cetindil, Shengyue Ji, Dustin Lakin, and Rares Vernica. The team began their work over the holiday weekend that immediately followed the disaster.
The Haiti Earthquake project is part of Prof. Li’s Family Reunification project, which was developed originally to aid efforts in reuniting families after the Hurricane Katrina disaster in 2005.  Using a singular search engine from which families can search for lost persons, users can quickly scan ever-changing databases, without having to visit each web site independently.
Li’s collective search engine utilizes a technology that helps make information access easier by supporting “type-ahead, fuzzy” search. The developed techniques can search for results as users type in query keywords character by character. The techniques can even find records that match a keyword approximately. For example, if a user searches for people by typing in a name "emanuel philippe", their fuzzy search can also find similar names such as "manuel philip". Similar techniques have been used to implement the PSearch project http://psearch.ics.uci.edu/, which supports type-ahead, fuzzy search on the UCI directory.
Li's research interests are in the fields of database and information systems, including Web search, data integration, data warehouses, data cleansing, and data-intensive computing. His research is supported by grants from the National Science Foundation (NSF), gift funds from Google and Microsoft, and a fund from Calit2.





More news and events

News Stories
Press releases
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu.








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤












