http://fr.ics.uci.edu






Family Reunification



FAMILY REUNIFICATION
 
Objective
The goal of this project is to develop techniques to help
      people find their loved ones during or after a disaster.

    Many people can be affected by disasters such as Hurricane
      Katrina. There are many Web sites available during and after a
      disaster, with the same goal of helping people find their loved ones,
      or report they are OK.  For a parent who wants to find online
      information about his missing kid, he needs to go to many such sites
      to search. This process is very time consuming, especially when
      information from the sources keeps changing.

    Another problem is that, a lot of data at the source has
      inconsistencies and even errors. For instance, a kid called
      Michael could be stored as Micheal, since the person who
      submitted the data mistyped the name. A person called William
        Smith could also be stored as Bill Smyth.  The last name of
      a kid could be missing. For these reasons, the parent might not be
      able to find the information, even if the source does include valuable
      information about his missing kid.

    We study these research issues in this project.  As a
      prototype, we crawl and extract information from these Web
      sources, and put the data into a central repository. We also
      provide interfaces for people to submit information about
      missing people, or report they are OK. We allow users to search
      for information in the repository, instead of going to those
      individual sources.

    Due to the low quality of the data, it is very important for
      the system to allow users to find persons whose description
      matches a search query approximately. We are developing research
      techniques to answer such search queries efficiently.  In
      addition, we also need to study issues such as crawling,
      information extraction, and answering subscribed queries.

    With the NSF award 1030002,
      we will study how to support powerful keyword search with
      efficient indexing structures and algorithms in a
      clouding-computing infrastructure. A main application is
      supporting family reunification in disasters such as the Haiti
      Earthquake.  Check our portals for the Haiti
      Earthquake and Chile Earthquake.  The
      main challenge is how to use limited programming primitives in
      the cloud to implement index structures and search algorithms.

    Family Reunification
        - PPT

Chile Earthquake (February, 2010)

    Check out the our detailed page available here.

    

Haiti Earthquake (January, 2010)

    Check out the our detailed page available here.

    Hurricane Katrina (2005) (offline)
Data Crawled (2005-2007)
We crawled around 35,000 entries from the following
    websites:

MissingKids.com
PublicPeopleLocator.com
FamilyMessages.org
NOLA.com

People

Chen Li
      (Faculty)
      Rares Vernica (Student)
    
Alumni

Sharad Mehrotra (Faculty)
      
Jay Lickfett (Software Engineer)
      Jiaheng Lu (Postdoctoral Researcher)
      
Yiming Lu (Student)
      Ajay Shah (Student)
      Chris Trezzo (Student)
    

Wiki (username/password required)

    For any questions regarding this project please
    contact Rares
    Vernica
This project is supported by:







