http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ics184







CS 122 Course Website







CS 122 - Introduction to Data Management 
         Fall 2006  
 Dr. Naveen Ashish and Prof. Sharad Mehrotra 





 
Time and Place
 Location: SH 134 
 Time: 12:30- 1:50 PM Tuesdays and Thursdays 
 
Course Objectives and Goals

This course provides students with an introduction to the design of databases and the use of database management systems for applications. We will cover the entity relationship (E/R) approach to database design. We will cover the relational data model, mapping E/R designs to relations, relational design theory, abstract query language such as relational algebra, and programming in SQL. Students will get exposure to how relational database management systems are used to implement a database. Time permitting, we will also consider advanced database management features such as object-oriented and object-relational database systems. This course is aimed at database design and use of database management systems in implementing database applications. It does NOT cover the implementation of database management systems which will be covered in extensive details in the follow-on courses ICS214a, ICS214b and ICS215.
 
 
 Prerequisites 
 Students should have experience of programming in either C++ or Java. Proficiency of the UNIX environment will be helpful. 
 
 Collaboration Policy 

Students are encouraged to work in a group for their project assignment. The groups should not have more than 3 students. The assignments on the other hand should be individually. Students can however feel free to discuss the assignment with their peers.

 
 Grading Criteria 


Online Assignments15%


Project25%


Midterm25%


Final Exam35%


 
 Textbooks 

A First Course in Database systems, by Jeff Ullman, and Jennifer Widom.


Database Systems Concepts, by Silberschatz, Korth, and Sudarshan

 



Navigation

Course Details
Instructor and TA Information
Lecture Notes
Assignments and Project 
Resources 



Announcements


(New)   Click here  to access the sample final.
   Click here to access the solution.    


(New) To access Midterm solutions  click here 





 © Fall 2006 CS 122 |

Design by Cirkuit Networks, Inc. Modified by Ravi Chandra Jammalamadaka, ICS  




