https://isg.ics.uci.edu/db-qual






DB Qual – Information Systems Group












































































































 





 














Home
People

Faculty
Students
Recent Alumni
Research Staff
Visitors


Research

Projects
Publications


Teaching

Courses
DB Qual


Events

Talks
News


About

Sponsors & Partners
Visitor Info
Contact us


 










DB Qual



Requirements of PhD Qualifying Exams in Data Management
 Profs. Michael Carey, Chen Li, and Sharad Mehrotra
 ISG Group, UC Irvine
 Last revision: January 2019
The goal of a PhD qualifying exam is to evaluate and assess a student’s skills to advance to candidacy to finish a successful PhD.
Written Exam: The student is required to take both CS222 and CS223 and receive a grade of at least “A-” in the exam part for each course, as evaluated and decided by the instructor. If the grade for the exam part of a course is below this threshold, the student will have  one additional chance to take the exams (both midterm and final, if both are offered) during the next offering of the course in order to receive at least an A- as decided by the instructor. 
Oral Exam: The student needs to give a presentation to summarize his/her research results developed so far, or to do a survey of the research topic he/she is working on. The format will be one hour, including the presentation and Q&A. If the student fails the oral exam, he/she will have one additional chance to repeat the exam.
Expected timeline: The student is expected to pass both exams (written and oral) by the end of the second year, and must pass no later than the end of the third year. The student can opt to take the oral exam earlier if they and their advisor feel they are ready.
Exam Committee: The student is required to form a committee of five members for the oral exam according to university policies. It is highly recommended that he or she start contacting committee members at least three months before the desired exam date to find a time that works for everybody.

 







Search for :


Latest News 



Upcoming Talk: How to build your own Business

											July 25, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Couchbase and Distributed Computing Backends for big data processing

											May 31, 2022																																


Upcoming Talk: Shedding Light on Opaque Database Queries

											May 31, 2022																																


ISG researchers won the  Mark Weiser Best Paper Award at IEEE PERCOM 2022

											March 24, 2022																																




Upcoming Events




Qiushi Bai: QueryBooster-Improving SQL Performance Using Middleware Services for Human-Centered Query Rewriting + Demo



October 14 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Xiaozhen Liu: Demonstration of Collaborative and Interactive Workflow-based Data Analytics in Texera



October 21 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Abhishek Singh: WedgeBlock – An Off-Chain Secure Logging Platform for Blockchain Applications



October 28 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Juncheng Fang: PeloPartition- Improving Blockchain Resilience to Partitioning by Sharding



November 4 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 




Peeyush Gupta: A Demonstration of TippersDB



November 18 @ 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm 



View All Events

Please follow & like us :) 

Follow  

 







			Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI		






cross










Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close













































