http://www.ics.uci.edu/Arcadia/Teamware/historical.html


Teamware - Process Support System



 Project Description
 Summary of System Features
 Process Definition
 Platform
 Availability
 Example Activity Network
 Project Personnel
 Papers
 Contact Information
 Online
Interactive Teamware Demo
 
Teamware Activity Guidance Support
 
Online API Reference Manual
 
Teamware Architecture Diagrams


Project Description

The Teamware process support system is designed to improve team coordination 
and managerial control of software development teams. Teamware allows users 
to explicitly define their software development process and provides 
extensive execution support. In addition, Teamware is designed for 
non-technical as well as technical users, and is appropriate for use by 
managers, programmers, domain experts, and customer representatives. 
It also provides support for company-, site-, or project-specific 
customization.


During process execution, Teamware provides a summary of assignments for 
each team member. As each assignment is completed, Teamware informs 
appropriate managers and team members, and updates the shared project view. 
It also coordinates handoff of artifacts, tool interaction, and resource 
assignments. Further automation can be provided depending on the user's 
environment. This automation can include, for example, automatic invocation 
of tools, automated forwarding of documents to reviewers, or interaction 
with metrics gathering tools.


Summary of System Features


Support for Non-Technical Personnel - The language and system are 
designed to support non-technical users as well as technical users. 
Non-technical managers, domain experts, accounting, marketing, and support 
staff are able to both read and write programs using the Teamware language.

Company, Site, or Project Customizable - Companies or projects 
can customize Teamware to meet their specific needs. New activity, artifact, 
and resource types can be defined.

Facilitates Integration with External Tools - Teamware's object 
model is designed to facilitate integration with any external tools providing 
an API. Teamware's agenda tool and default mail system, for example, can be 
replaced with the time-management and mail systems preferred by a particular 
site. In addition, meeting room schedulers, project management tools, and other 
site-specific tools can be integrated in using the object model.

Object-Oriented - Teamware's activity, artifact, and resource 
definitions are object-oriented. Users can create new definitions which 
inherit the properties of existing definitions.

Multiple-Viewing Formalisms Supportable - While Teamware provides 
a default view of the process similar to PERT charts, it also provides an API 
allowing access for viewing and editing using other viewers. Future viewers are 
planned including IDEF. In addition, users can define their own viewers.

Dynamic Response to Project Changes - Teamware provides flexibility 
as the project changes. Teamware activities, activity networks, and activity, 
artifact, and resource types can be changed dynamically as the process 
executes.


Process Definition in Teamware


Teamware allows definition of the activities, artifacts, and resources 
associated with the software development process. These items can be defined 
hierarchically, thus an activity can be further subdivided into subactivities, 
while a software development team resource can be further defined to include 
team member resources or subteam resources. In addition, Teamware activity 
networks define the interelationships between activities, artifacts, and 
resources. Networks include definition of control flow, data flow, and 
resource assignments. Teamware's default activity network viewer provides 
a PERT-like view of the activities, however additional viewers can be defined 
using Teamware's API. An IDEF0 viewer, for example, is planned.


Teamware provides a high degree of extensibility and flexibility in process 
definitions. Teamware provides object-oriented hierarchies of activity, 
artifact, and resource categories. Users can customize or extend the existing 
categories to meet their specific needs. Thus, if a company uses a different 
e-mail system than mh (Teamware's default system), a new e-mail system can 
be easily integrated. Similarly, if a project needs a new resource type 
not found in Teamware, the existing resource hierarchy can be extended.


Platform


The initial implementation of Teamware has been developed running Sun OS 4.2 
or higher. It utilizes Sun Ada, gcc, and 
Python. 
API's are provided for both 
Ada and Python. Default viewers provided are built on top of the ARPA-sponsored 
Chiron User Interface Management System.

 
Availability


Teamware is public domain software with full source distribution.
Teamware-1.1 is written completely in 
Java(tm) and is set for release
on the web sometime in the second quarter, 1996.
Object handlers are currently supported in Python and Java; support
for Ada95 and Tcl are currently underway. 

If you are interested in becoming a beta-tester, 
please contact us. 


 
Example Teamware Activity Network using default viewer.




Current Project Personnel


Patrick S. Young (Project Manager)
Gregory Alan Bolcer (Lead Programmer)
Jeffrey J. Blevins
Deborah L. Dubrow
Peter Kammer
Jason E. Robbins
Harry E. Yessayan
Richard N. Taylor (Supervising Faculty)



Papers


 
Customizable Process Specification and Enactment for Technical
and Non-Technical Users (Disseration) 
 by Patrick Scott Chun Young.
[940kB]

 
The Teamware Language Reference Manual Version 1.0
 by Patrick Scott Chun Young,
March 25, 1994. [249kB]

 
The Teamware Foundation Reference Manual Version 1.0
 by Patrick Scott Chun Young,
March 25, 1994. [148kB]

 
Human-Executed Operations in the Teamware Process Programming System,
 by Patrick S. Young and
Richard N. Taylor,
in Proceedings of the Ninth Internation Software Process Workshop. [46kB]

 
Process Model Customization for Technical and Non-Technical Users, 
 by Patrick S. Young and 
Richard N. Taylor. [102kB]

 
Team-Oriented Process Programming,
 by Patrick S. Young and
Richard N. Taylor, 
Technical Report UCI 91-68.





Contact Information


Arcadia-Teamware

Department of Information and Computer Science,
University of California, Irvine
Irvine, CA 92717-3425


arcadia-teamware@ics.uci.edu

Arcadia Project at UCI
Last modified: Fri Dec  9 13:04:25 1994

