https://www.ics.uci.edu/~pattis/common/handouts/mingweclipse/mingw.html



MinGW C++ Download and Installation Instructions



MinGW C++ Download and Installation




Install MinGW

MinGW means Minimalist GNU for Windows: GNU is a source
  of open source programming tools (GNU stands for GNU is Not Unix).

In this handout you will download the files needed by GNU C++; in the next
  you will download a version of Eclipse that is already set up to use
  MinGW.

You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can
  refer to them while downloading and installing MinGW.
Or, just keep this document in your browser.
You should read each step completely before performing the action that it
  describes.


MinGW

Downloading

Click
       
     MinGW.
    The following page will appear in your browser (from the SourceForge
       web site).
       


Click the Download mingw-get-setup.exe(86.5 kB)
      link.
    
    This file should start downloading in your standard download folder.
    This file is only 85KB so it should download very quickly.
    
    The file should appear as
    


    Terminate the window browsing the SourceForge web site.


Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install MinGW
      (and reinstall it later, if necessary).

Start the Installation instructions directly below.



Installing

Double-click the  icon.
    
    The following pop-up window will appear.
    


Click Run.
    
    The following pop-up window will appear.
    


Click Install.
    
    The following pop-up window will appear.
    


    You can install this software anywhere, but I recommend installing it
       in the default directory: C:\MinGW.


Click Continue.
    
    The following pop-up window will appear, showing the downloading progress.
    After about a minute, it should appear as follows.
    


Click Continue.
    
    The following pop-up window will appear.
    Ensure on the left that Basic Setup is highlighted.
    Click the three boxes indicated below: mingw32-base,
       mingw32-gcc=g++, msys-base.
    After clicking each, select Mark for selection.
    This window should appear as follows.
    


Terminate (click X on) the MinGW Installation Manager
    (I know this is weird).
    
    The following pop-up window should appear
    


Click Review Change

    The following pop-up window should appear
    


Click Apply.
    
    The following pop-up window will appear, showing the downloading progress.
    


    After a while (a few minutes to an hour, depending on your download speed),
       it should start extracting the donwloaded files.
    A few minutes after that, the following pop-up window should appear.
    


Click Close.


Edit Path so that the MinGW and MSYSM software
      is findable by Eclipse.
    
Click Start
Click Control Panel
Click System
Click Advance system settings; you will see
    


Click Enviroment Variables...; you will see
    


In the System variables (lower) part, scroll to line starting
           with Path and click that line.
IMPORTANT: Even though you see a highlighted PATH in the User
             variables (top part) look for Path (not CLASSPATH) in the lower
             part to change it.
Click Edit...
Copy C:\MinGW\bin;C:\MinGW\msys\1.0\bin;
          (include everything from C to ;) and then paste
          it at the very start of the Variable Value text entry.
        
        When done it should look like
    


Click OK (3 times)
    

MinGW is now installed.
You are now ready to install Eclipse....But it is probaby a good idea to
  reboot your machine first, to ensure the new path is correct.




