http://www.ics.uci.edu/~pattis/common/handouts/macmingweclipse/eclipse.html



Eclipse Download and Installation Instructions



Eclipse Download and Installation




Install a new version of Eclipse to use with C++

You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can
  refer to them while downloading and installing MinGW and Eclipse.
Or, just keep this document in your browser.
You should read each step completely before performing the action that it
  describes.


Eclipse: Version 4.5 (Mars)


The Eclipse download requires about 200 MB of disk space; keep it on your
  machine, in case you need to re-install Eclipse.
When installed, Eclipse requires an additional 200 MB of disk space.

Downloading

Click
    
      Eclipse
    The top of the following page will appear in your browser.
    


    In this handout we will download Eclipse Standard 4.5 for
      Mac OS X 64 Bit; if your computer uses Mac OS X (Cocoa), continue below;
        otherwise look for the pull-down list showing Mac OS X (Cocoa)
        and instead choose either Windows or Linux and then
        continue below.


Click the 64 Bit (under Mac OS X) under the heading Eclipse IDE for C/C++ Developers (the fourth
      selection from the top).
    


    You will see the following page (don't worry about the name of the
      institution underneath the orange DOWNLOAD button).
    


Click the orange DOWNLOAD button.
    The site named here, in orange, underneath the DOWNLOAD button:
      United States - Indiana Unversity (http) is the
      random one chosen by the download page this time; yours may differ.
    
    This file should start downloading in your standard download folder.
    This file is about 200 Mb so it might take a while to download fully if you
      are on a slow internet connection (it took me about 5 minutes over a
      cable modem).
    Don't worry about the exact time as long as the download continues to make
      steady progress.
    In Chrome progress is shown on the bottom-left of the window, via the icon
    


    The file should appear as
    


    Terminate the window browsing the Eclipse download.


Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install Eclipse
      (and reinstall it later, if necessary).

Start the Installing instructions directly below.



Installing

Double click the file eclipse-cpp-mars-R-macosx-cocoa-x86_64.tar.gz,
      the file that you just downloaded and moved.
    It will unzip the file and create an Eclipse application, which
      appears as
    


    Move this application into the Applications folder and put it on the
      dock for simple access.
    Now you are ready to perform a one-time only setup of Eclipse on
      your machine.


Double-click the Eclipse icon on the Dock that you just
      created above.
    
    The following pop-up window will appear
    


    (note it says Eclipse Cpp here, because I already have Eclipse
       installed for my work with Python, so on my machine I renamed this
       application Eclipse Cpp.


Click Open.
    
    The following splash screen will appear
    


    and then a Workspace Launcher pop-up window will appear.
    


    In the Workspace text box, your login name should appear between
      /users and /Documents\workspace, instead of my name,
      richardepattis.
    
    Leave unchecked the 
      Use this as the default and do not ask again box.
    Although you will use this same workspace for the entire quarter (checking
      projects in and out of it), it is best to see this
      Workspace Launcher pop-up window each time you start Eclipse, to
      remind you where your workspace is located.

Click OK.
    
    Progress bars will appear at the bottom of the spash screen as Eclipse
      loads.
    
    Eventually the Eclipse workbench will appear with a Welcome tab
      covering it.
    


Terminate (click X on) the Welcome tab.
    
    You will not see the Welcome tab when you start Eclipse after this
      first time.
    You should now see the following Eclipse workbench.
    


    Notice the C/C++ words/icon appear on the top left (in the Window
      title-bar) and below the upper right-hand corner (beneath the tool-bar).


Eclipse is now installed for C++.



Xcode
In this section we will download/install Xcode.
Before downloading Xcode (this software is free) you must have an
  itunes account.

Download/Install Xcode by opening a browser and pasting the
      following url:
       https://developer.apple.com/xcode/downloads/.
    
    It will pop-up the following Developer window.
    


Click the View in Mac App Store > link.
    It will bring pop-up the following itunes window
    


Click the Get button (underneath the hammer).
    The pop-up window will change to
    


Click the Install App button (same location).
    When I did this, I received the following message in a pop-up window
      (because I am running Mac OS 10.9.5).
    


    At this point I clicked OK and  returned to the original
      Xcode window, scrolled to the bottom (left), and clicked on
      the Additional Tools link.
    I was redirected to login with my Apple ID.
    


    I entered my Apple ID and password and clicked 
       Sign In.
    Next a pop-up window with an Apple Developer Agreement appeared;
      I scrolled to the bottom.
    


    I clicked the box binding me to the agreement and clicked the Submit
      button.
    Next a pop-up window with various developer tools appeared.
    I scrolled down to Xcode 5.1 (dated April 9, 2014) and clicked on
      the + to disclose the Xcode 5.1.1.dmg link.
    


    I clicked this link; note the download occupies 2.1Gb of storage: my
       download took 30 minutes.
    Then I double clicked the downloaded .dmg file and a pop-window
      showed itself briefly.
    


    Then a pop-window window asked me to drag/drop Xcode to
      the Applications folder.
    


    I dragged/dropped Xcode to the Applications folder, and
      a pop-up window showed itself during the copying.
    


    Then I repeated these steps for Xcode's command line developer tools.
    I scrolled to
     Command Line Tools (OS X 10.9) for Xcode - September 2014
     (dated September 1, 2014) and clicked on the + to disclose the
     link.
    


    I clicked this link; note the download occupies 102Mb of storage: my
       download took just a few minutes.
    Then I double clicked the downloaded .dmg file and a pop-window
      showed itself briefly, followed by the following pop-up window.
    


    I double clicked the icon and the following pop-up window appeared, with
      the word Introduction highlighed.
    


    I clicked the Continue button, and following pop-up window appeared,
      with the word License highlighed.
    


    I clicked the Continue button, and following pop-up window appeared
    


    I clicked the Agreee button, and following pop-up window appeared,
      with the word Installation Type highlighed (it skipped highlighing
      the Destination Select.
    


    (this image appears to be missing)
    I clicked the Install button, and following pop-up window appeared.
    


    I entered my password and clicked the Install Software button,
      and following pop-up window appeared, showing the installation progress.
    


    Eventually, that window was replaced with the following pop-up window with
      the word Summary highlighed.
    


    I clicked the Close button and terminate the
      Command Line Developer Tools window.


Open a terminal and type (don't copy/paste) to its prompt:
    xcode-select --install as shown below.
    


    I pressed return and following pop-up window appeared
    


    I clicked the Install button, and following pop-up window appeared.
    


    I clicked the Agreee button, and following pop-up window appeared
      briefly.
    


    When it disappers, the following pop-up window appeared.
    


    I clicked the Done button.
    Then I closed the terminal window.


Go the the Launchpad and double click the Xcode icon.
    The following pop-up window will appear briefly
    


    It is replaced by the following pop-up window.
    



Click Open.
    The following pop-up window will appear
    


    Click Agree.
    The following pop-up window appeared.
    


    I entered my password and clicked OK.
    The following pop-up window will appear briefly
    


    It is replaced by the following pop-up window.
    


    Click Open Other and the following pop-up window will appear (yours
      might have diffierent documents, but it should show the workspace
      that you created when you started Eclipse).
    Click that workspace (to select it) and click Open.
    
KLUDGE: is this necessary? Could I have dismissed this window and still
         have run the code?

The require Xcode software is now installed.



Eclipse Verification
In this section we will Eclipse/C++ is working correctly.




Re-open Eclipse if it is not open.

Start a new project by clicking on the "down-pointing" black triangle to
      the right of the left-most icon on the Eclipse tool-bar (not at the top
      of the screen, but on the window runnin Eclipse).
    Fill in the Project Name as test; in Project type
      ensure Empty Porject is selected; in Toolchains ensure
      MacOSX GCC is selection.
    The pop-up window should appear as
    


    Click Finish.


Right click the test folder and select Source File as shown
      in the window below.
    



Enter trivial.cpp after Source file: as shown in the window
      below.
    


   Click the Finish button.


Copy/paste the following text starting at line 8 in the trivial.cpp
      editor.

#include <iostream>

int main()
{
      std::cout << "Welcome to ICS 46!" << std::endl;
      return 0;
}

Right click in the *trivial.cpp editor tab and select Save.
    


    The * in the editor tab (meaning the file is unsaved) should
      disappear.


Click the hammer (or right-click the test folder and select
     Build Project) and the Console window at the bottom
     (click it if it is not active) should show a successful build.
    



Right click in the trivial.cpp editor and select Run as and
      then 1 Local C/C++ Application.
    The Console window should show a successful run.
    You can run this application in the future by clicking the right-pointing
      white triange in the green circle (the leftmost one of the three).
    




You have now verified the installation of Eclipse for C++.




