http://www-db.ics.uci.edu/pages/research/quasar/index.shtml


Quality Aware Sensing Architecture (QUASAR)

















       



QUality Aware Sensing ARchitecture
[ People
    | Motivation
    | Talks
    | Papers
    | Funding
    ] 









People

Faculty

Sharad Mehrotra 
Nalini Venkatasubramanian 

Students

Ambarish De 
Qi Han 
Iosif Lazaridis 
Daniel Massaguer 
Suraj Nagasrinivasa 
Weiwen (Raymond) Yang 
Xingbo Yu 
Xing Zheng 

Alumni

Rajat Mathur 
Asim Memon 
Koushik Niyogi 






Motivation

Sensor devices are promising to revolutionize our interaction with the
  physical world by allowing continuous monitoring and reaction to natural and
  artificial processes at an unprecedented level of spatial and temporal
  resolution. As sensors become smaller, cheaper and more configurable, systems
  incorporating large numbers of them become feasible. Besides the
  technological aspects of sensor design, a critical factor enabling future
  sensor-driven applications will be the availability of an integrated
  infrastructure taking care of the onus of data management. Ideally, accessing
  sensor data should be no difficult or inconvenient than using simple SQL. 
In the Quality-Aware Sensing Architecture (QUASAR) project we investigate
  some of the issues that such an infrastructure must address. Unlike
  conventional distributed database systems, a sensor data architecture must
  handle extremely high data generation rates from a large number of small
  autonomous components. And, unlike the emerging paradigm of data streams, it
  is infeasible to think that all this data can be streamed into the query
  processing site, due to severe bandwidth and energy constraints of
  battery-operated wireless sensors. Thus, sensing data architectures must
  become quality-aware, regulating the quality of data at all levels of
  the distributed system, and supporting user applications' quality
  requirements in the most efficient manner possible. 




Talks

Sharad Mehrotra,
       Nalini Venkatasubramanian, Rajesh Gupta, "System Support for
       Sensor Networks" (Tutorial), HiPC 2003, Hyderabad, India,
       December 2003. [Powerpoint Slides]
       
Sharad Mehrotra "Quality-Aware
       Sensor Infrastructure (QUASAR) Project" (Talk at UCLA), October
       2003. [Powerpoint Slides] 
Sharad Mehrotra "Quality-Aware
       Sensor Database (QUASAR) Project" (Talk at UCLA), October 2002.
       [Powerpoint Slides] 




Papers

Iosif Lazaridis, Qi
       Han, Sharad Mehrotra, Nalini Venkatasubramanian, "Fault-Tolerant
       Evaluation of Continuous Selection Queries over Sensor-Generated
       Data", (submitted for publication). 
Iosif Lazaridis and
       Sharad Mehrotra, "Approximate Selection Queries over Imprecise
       Data", International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE)
       2004, Boston,
       Massachussets, March 2004. [pdf]
       
Iosif Lazaridis, Qi
       Han, Xingbo Yu, Sharad Mehrotra, Nalini Venkatasubramanian, Dmitri V.
       Kalashnikov, Weiwen Yang, "QUASAR: Quality-Aware Sensing
       Architecture" SIGMOD Record 33(1): 26-31, March 2004. [pdf]
       
Qi Han, Sharad
       Mehrotra and Nalini Venkatasubramanian, "Energy Efficient Data Collection
       in Distributed Sensor Environments", The 24th IEEE
       International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS),
       Tokyo, Japan, March, 2004. [pdf]
       
Xingbo Yu, Koushik
       Niyogi, Sharad Mehrotra, and Nalini Venkatasubramanian, "Adaptive
       Target Tracking in Sensor Networks", The 2004 Communication
       Networks and Distributed Systems Modeling and Simulation Conference
       (CNDS), San Diego, January 2004. [pdf] 
Qi Han and Nalini
       Venkatasubramanian, "Addressing Timeliness/Accuracy/Cost
       Tradeoffs in Information Collection for Dynamic Environments",
       The 24th IEEE International Real-time Systems Symposium (RTSS), Cancun, Mexico, December, 2003. [pdf] 
Xingbo Yu and Sharad
       Mehrotra, "Capturing Uncertainty in Spatial Queries over
       Imprecise Data", The 14th International Conference on Database
       and Expert Systems Applications (DEXA), Prague, Czech
         Republic, September 2003. [pdf] 
Xingbo Yu, Koushik
       Niyogi, Sharad Mehrotra, and Nalini Venkatasubramanian, "Adaptive
       Middleware for Distributed Sensor Environments", Middleware2003
       WiP paper, IEEE DS Online, May 2003, Vol. 4, No.5. [html] 
Iosif Lazaridis and
       Sharad Mehrotra, "Capturing Sensor-Generated Time Series with
       Quality Guarantees", International Conference on Data
       Engineering (ICDE) 2003, Bangalore,
        India. [pdf]
       
Kriengkrai Porkaew,
       Iosif Lazaridis and Sharad Mehrotra, "Querying Mobile Objects in
       Spatio-Temporal Databases", 7th Int'l Symposium on Spatial and
       Temporal Databases, Redondo Beach, California, July 2001. [pdf]
       
Iosif Lazaridis,
       Sharad Mehrotra, Kriengkrai Porkaew and Robert Winkler "Database
       Support for Situational Awareness", Book Chapter, ARL Handbook,
       2001. [MS
       Word] 
Iosif Lazaridis and
       Sharad Mehrotra "Incorporating Aggregate Queries in Interactive
       Visualization", Appeared in Proceedings of the 5th Annual
       Federated Laboratory Symposium, Maryland, March 21-23, 2001. [MS
       Word] 
Iosif Lazaridis and
       Sharad Mehrotra, "Progressive Approximate Aggregate Queries with
       a Multi-Resolution Tree Structure", 2001 ACM SIGMOD Conference
       on Management of Data, Santa
         Barbara, May, 2001. [pdf]
       




Project Funding

Funding is provided by
  the National Science Foundation under Grant No. IIS-0086124 and Award No.
  0331707, the Army Research Laboratory under Cooperative Agreements No.
  DAAL-01-96-2-0003 and No. DAAD-19-00-1-0188, and the Office of Naval Research
  under contract number N00014-02-1-0715. 





Sensor-Related Information


[Dani] Power issues on MICAz and its sensor
       boards 
MICAz,
       MICA2, MICA2Dot and Programming Board User's Manual (specs on Power
       consumption among others) 
CrossBow
       Sensor and Data AcquisitionBoards specs 
Excel sheet for
       calculating life-time of MICA motes (change the values to match your
       specific MICA mote (MICAz, MICA2, MICA2DOT) 







[Dani]
       ZigBee standard 






 



