https://www.ics.uci.edu/~dsm/compose




CompOSE|Q System




Composable Open Software
Environment with QoS


Nalini Venkatasubramanian,
Mayur Despande, Sebastian
Gutierrez-Nolasco,  Shivajit
Mohapatra and Jehan
Wickramasuriya

This work is supported by the ONR MURI Project
CONTESSA and NSF Career Award ANI-9875988. 


Abstract:

With the
evolution of the global information infrastructure, service providers
will need to provide effective and adaptive resource management
mechanisms that can serve more concurrent clients and deal with
applications that exhibit Quality of Service (QoS) requirements.
Flexible, scalable and customizable middleware can be used as enabling
technology for next generation systems that adhere to the QoS
requirements of applications that execute in highly dynamic distributed
environments. To enable application aware resource management, we are
developing a customizable and composable middleware framework called CompOSE|Q based on a
reflective metamodel. 

ComOSE|Q
Architecture and Implementation



Relevant References:

N. Venkatasubramanian, S.
Gutierrez-Nolasco, S. Mohapatra and J. Wickramasuriya:Design
and
Implementation of a Safe Reflective Middleware Framework. Submitted for publication. 2004.

N. Venkatasubramanian: Safe
Composability of Middleware
Services. Communications of the ACM. June, 2002.
S. Gutierrez-Nolasco and N.
Venkatasubramanian: A
Reflective Middleware Framework for Communication in Dynamic
Environments. International Symposium on Distributed Objects
and
Applications (DOA'02). October, 2002.
J. Wickramasuriya and N.
Venkatasubramanian: A Middleware
Approach to Access Control for Mobile
Concurrent Objects. International Symposium on Distributed
Objects and
Applications (DOA 2002). October, 2002.
S. Gutierrez-Nolasco and
N.  Venkatasubramanian: Reachability
Snapshots in the Presence of
Failures: An exercise in Protocol-Service Composition.
International
Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks, Workshop on Dependable
Middleware-Based Systems. June, 2002.
S. Mohapatra and N.
Venkatasubramanian: A Distributed
Adaptive Scheduler for QoS Support in
Compose|Q. Seventh IEEE International Workshop on
Object-oriented
Real-time Dependable Systems (WORDS 2002). January, 2002.
N. Venkatasubramanian, M. Deshpande, S.
Mohapatra, S.
Gutierrez-Nolasco and J. Wickramasuriya: Design and Implementation of a Composable
Reflective Middleware Framework. IEEE International
Conference
on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS 2001). April, 2001.
S. Gutierrez-Nolasco and N.
Venkatasubramanian: Design Patterns for Safe Reflective
Middleware. Object-Oriented Programming, Systems, Languages
and
Applications (OOPSLA 2001). Workshop Towards Patterns and Pattern
Languages for Object-Oriented Distributed Real-Time and Embedded
Systems. October, 2001.
S.
Gutierrez-Nolasco and N. Venkatasubramanian: A
Composable Reflective Communication
Framework. In Proceedings of the IFIP/ACM Workshop
on Reflective Middleware (RM2000). April, 2000.
N. Venkatasubramanian: ComPOSE|Q - A QoS-enabled Customizable
Middleware Framework for Distributed Computing, Distributed
Middleware Workshop, Proceedings of the IEEE Intl. Conference on
Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS '99). June, 1999.
N. Venkatasubramanian, G. Agha and C. Talcott: Composable QoS-Based Distributed Resource
Management, Workshop on Compositional Software Architectures,
Monterey, CA. January, 1998.
N. Venkatasubramanian and C. Talcott: MetaArchitectures for Resource Management
in Open Distributed Systems, Proceedings of the ACM
Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC '95). August,
1995.
N. Venkatasubramanian and C. Talcott: A Meta Architecture for Scalable
Distributed Resource Management, Proceedings of the 26th
Hawaiian International Conference on System Sciences. January, 1993.
N. Venkatasubramanian, G. Agha and C. Talcott: Scalable
Distributed Garbage Collection for Systems of Active Objects,
Proceedings of the IFIP International Workshop on Memory Management,
St.Malo, France. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Volume 637,
Springer-Verlag. September, 1992.


Presentations:


Design and Implementation of a
Composable
Reflective Middleware Framework. Presentation available here [
ppt ].
A
Reflective Middleware Framework for Communication in Dynamic
Environments. Presentation available here [ ppt ].
Reachability
Snapshots in the Presence of
Failures: An exercise in Protocol-Service Composition.
Presentation available here [ ppt ].
 Design Patterns for Safe
Reflective
Middleware. Presentation available here [ ppt ].




The current state of the project is available below, but
please note that it is a snapshot of ongoing work and still incomplete
regarding various aspects. 





Composeq.zip

CompOSE|Q System (core modules)



crcf.tar.gz

CRCF Module 










