http://www.ics.uci.edu/%7Emopy





Shivajit Mohapatra's Homepage :: mopy :: Shivjit





























                                        Bio
                                    


Portfolio


Publications


Engagements


Personal


Miscellanea














Shivajit Mohapatra
Applications Research Center, Motorola Labs




                                Applications Research Center  600 North U.S. Highway 45, 
                                Libertyville 
                                Illinois (USA)
                            

                                <> 

                                Phone: 847.523.3358 (Work)
                                Fax: 847.523.2244
                            









 :: Short Biography 


 I work for the Applications Research Center  at 
                    Motorola Labs where I work in the general area of mobile computing systems. My 
                    research includes designing enablers for next generation mobile systems, mobile
                    middleware frameworks, Ad-hoc computing and power management. I have also dabbled in Game Theory,
                    Incentive Models and Security for mobile environments. 


                    Specifically, over the past several years at Motorola research, the primary thrust of my
                    work has been in two areas: (i) conceptualizing, architecting, designing, prototyping
                    and evaluating distributed middleware technology that not only enable novel mobile
                    applications, but also advance the state-of-the-art in mobile technology, and
                    (ii) creating "disruptive" applications for next-generation mobile devices.

                    The systems I have worked on have not only been enablers
                    for "cool" applications (and product ideas), but some were designed to study more
                    fundamental underlying research problems. The findings from these studies have been
                    reported at international conferences/journals and have resulted in several patents
                    for Motorola.
                

                    Before that, as part of my doctoral
                    dissertation research on energy optimization on mobile systems, I proposed the use of
                    distributed middleware architecture to dynamically capture global system state and
                    coordinate energy adaptation strategies across various levels of system hierarchy.
                    To achieve this, I designed a set of interfaces that facilitated bidirectional data
                    flow and information exchange between the various system components. Using the prototype,
                    I demonstrated that such a coordinated approach could achieve significant
                    energy savings on mobile systems.
                
:: Work Experience / Education 

| F5 Networks  (current)
| Pervasive Platforms and Architectures Lab, Motorola Research Labs 
| Ph.D. in Computer Science at University of California, Irvine.  
     (Thesis:  Cross-Layer Power Optimization on Mobile Devices).
| M.S. in Computer Science at University
                        of California, Irvine. 
| B.E.(Hons) Computer Science, BITS, Pilani (India)
:: Miscellaneous



                        I am currently serving as the program Co-chair of
                         ACM Workshop on Mobile Video (MoVid) to
                        be held in Singapore in Mar 2014. I also chaired the same Workshop 
                        in 2013.
                    








©Shivajit Mohapatra










