http://www.ics.uci.edu/%7Emayur



Mayur Deshpande :: Home, Research














Mayur Deshpande




 Home 


 Research 


 Software 


 Publications 


 Industry 


 Resume 


 Flashback! 



Flash Information Dissemination


 I defended my dissertation on May 31st! 






Hi. I'm a PhD student in the CS department at UCI and this web-page is primarily
dedicated to the research that I do.

My thesis is on Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Flash dissemination where I explore how to
build systems and protocols for fast distribution of small amounts of data (less
than 25MB) in a highly scalable fashion among heterogenous hosts.
 Flashback  is an example of type
of work/research that I do.


My research work came out of an internship that I had with the
 LA Emergency Preparedness Department (EPD).
Though my work is motivated and set in context of crisis situations, the applications
are more general, especially given the growing trend of sharing rich media and the
large number of companies (and Web 2.0 startups) that are all trying to tap into this.
Now imagine if they had technology that would allow them to scale seamlessly without
actually worrying about bandwidth and server scalability.
That, in a nutshell, is the holy grail of my research.


 Sounds Interesting? 
Then, you can visit my  detailed research page  to find out
more. And if you want even more, visit my  publications 
page to get the real technical (and research) articles.


:: Background

I'm part of the ResCUE,
a $12.5 million NSF project that is investigating how Information-Technology (IT) can
be used to transform current day crisis-management.

Before starting with ResCUE, I worked on design and development of middleware for distributed
systems and how to improve their scalability. Little bit on the theoretical side, I've also
analyzed how large networks (like P2P systems) evolve under dynamic conditions.


While not involved in research, I like biking, rock-climbing and surfing. And, of course,
sampling other cultures via their cuisines in 'The OC'. If you are in OC and
love 'hole in walls', check this  blog  and a list
of 
74 places to visit. 



  Ph.D. Candidate 

Advisor: Nalini, V.
 Group: DSM 
 ICS, UCI

 Contact Information 
 mail: at uci, deshpanm

444, Computer Science Bldg,

Irvine, CA 92697-3425






HTML • CSS • 508




