http://www.ics.uci.edu/~shantas/students.html



Shantanu Sharma - Teaching 









 Shantanu Sharma

					Postdoc, Computer Science 
					University of California, Irvine, USA.
			    


Home
Hiring
Publications
Teaching
Info
Tutorials
Projects
Highlights
Pics

Others 

Narratives
Software
Links






 










Openings for Students  



    
    I am an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the New Jersey Institute of Technology (NJIT). 
    

    I am looking for PhD students who are interested to work with me on databases, secure data processing, 
    IoT, cloud computing, and secure model learning.  
    Master's and undergraduate students and self-funded visiting students/scholars are also welcome to apply.
    

Particularly, I am looking for highly motivated graduate as well as undergraduate students to explore, 
design, and implement algorithms 
for databases, secure computing, IoT, and machine learning. 
The work will expose the student to novel data management 
algorithms, programming with secure hardware (Intel SGX), cluster computing frameworks such as MapReduce and Spark, 
and to basics  of secure 
computing using cryptographic techniques. 
You will need to be highly enthusiastic, learner, and also be interested in coding/prototyping 
algorithms and systems. 


Requirements:

1. Adequate knowledge of algorithms, programming, and relational database systems

2. Knowledge of Java, SQL, and C/C++ 

3. Familiarity with development tools for managing and building software projects, 
version control systems (Git), and testing tools (JUnit)

4. You must be an Undergraduate/Master student in computer science or a related field


Additional Information:

1. Starting date: As soon as possible

2. Please send your CV and other information (e.g., github account, sample projects, etc.) to:
Shantanu Sharma (shantanu.sharma[AT]njit[DOT]edu)

3. Please write the POSITION NAME in the subject of email. Further, write a few sentences in the email to 
introduce yourself and express your interest in the position


Thank you and I look forward to hearing from you!



 Important: For general questions regarding MS and PhD admission in the Department of Computer Science
at NJIT, please see 
Link1 and 
Link 2. Regarding such information, please do NOT email me.




