https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1474



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



January 16,  2019


Informatics Department Receives $1.1M to Study Socially Responsible AI


How do we build systems that proactively promote values of inclusion? This is one of the questions the Department of Informatics hopes to tackle over the next few years, thanks to a Graduate Assistance in Areas of National Need (GAANN) award from the U.S. Department of Education (DoE). The award of $895,000, combined with $222,875 in cost-sharing funds from the UCI Graduate Division, will support seven informatics Ph.D. fellowships for students researching socially responsible AI.



In years past, the department has received GAANN awards for general informatics research, but the DoE program has since narrowed its focus. Within the field of computer and information sciences, GAANN is now targeting AI, along with cybersecurity and secure computer programming, as its “areas of national need.” Yet this change in focus did not deter Chancellor’s Professor of Informatics Paul Dourish from leading the application effort.


With much of the department’s research considering the social impact of data analytics and AI or the ethics and social values of technological design, Dourish decided to work with colleagues to put together a proposal under the AI umbrella. “Socially responsible AI is an area of public interest and considerable public debate, and it’s an area in which, within informatics, we have a lot of skills, experience and connections.” The proposal’s perfect score affirms the department’s potential for significant contributions in the AI space.


Dourish says some of the resulting research might focus directly on the ethical implications of AI but could also consider data analytics in areas such as healthcare, education, governance or criminal justice. In addition, he encourages researchers to view AI as more than just a “problem” to be fixed. “A lot of the conversation is around how one might avoid, for instance, algorithmic bias,” he says. Although he agrees that eliminating sources of systematic bias in technological platforms is important, he asserts that “the more interesting question is, ‘how can you use these technologies not just to avoid the problem but to actually promote social values?’”


In fact, the proposal highlights both perspectives as areas of investigation, referring to “responsible” as well as “responsive” AI. The former focuses on “how systems can be developed to avoid problems of bias, uneven access, discriminatory applications, and invasions of privacy,” while the latter aims to understand “how AI can be harnessed to promote social welfare, inclusiveness, economic progress and justice.”


Dourish is optimistic about the GAANN fellowships starting new conversations in these areas that will lead to novel research — inside the Department of Informatics and beyond.



— Shani Murray

Informatics Department Receives $1.1M to Study Socially Responsible AI
< Previous
 Rare Opportunity to Learn from Legendary Researcher Jeffrey D. Ullman
            
Next >
 ACM Undergraduate Seminar Series Offers Interesting Winter Lineup — and Pizza!
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











