https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=2003



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



June 23,  2021


In Memoriam: Vince Steckler ’80



The UCI community mourns the loss of beloved alumnus, friend and supporter Vincent Steckler ’80. The former CEO of Avast Antivirus Software died unexpectedly on June 15, 2021 at the age of 62. 

Vince graduated from UCI in 1980 with a B.S. in information and computer science and a B.S. in mathematics. He joined Avast as CEO in 2009 and transformed the company from a small regional business into a global provider of internet security. Vince remained active in the Orange County community and was a strong advocate for equity and inclusion in the computing industry. As a global business leader who had a tremendous impact on technology and innovation, while also remaining dedicated to his alma mater, Vince was inducted into the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) Alumni Hall of Fame in 2018.
“Our School was a cause close to Vince’s heart,” said ICS Dean Marios Papaefthymiou. “We are deeply saddened by the loss of a cherished friend and ardent supporter of the ICS community. At the same time, we remain as committed as ever to pursuing his vision of an accessible, equitable, and inclusive digital future for our society.”
Earlier this year, Vince and his wife, Amanda, gifted $10.4 million to UCI, half of which is supporting art history students, while the other half helped establish the Steckler Center for Responsible, Ethical, and Accessible Technology (CREATe) led by Chancellor’s Professor Paul Dourish, who was just named the first Steckler Endowed Chair in Information and Computer Science. The Stecklers previously donated $1 million to the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences to support women in computing, creating an endowed fellowship for graduate students as well as an endowed scholarship for undergraduates that receives permanent matching funds.
“Vince’s sudden passing has come as a tremendous shock,” said Dourish. “We are especially sorry that he will not be able to see the legacy and impact of his transformational gift. His passion for inclusivity and responsibility in the technology sector has built a foundation for research and education in this space for years to come, and we are devastated not to be able to share that with him.”
The ICS and UCI communities extend their sincerest condolences to the Steckler family and friends. Vince will hold a special place in the hearts of many at the UCI campus. He is survived by his wife, Amanda, and five children.
Per the family’s request, those who would like to share memories can do so by emailing condolences@avast.com. 

In Memoriam: Vince Steckler ’80
< Previous
 Do Chance Meetings at the Office Boost Innovation? There’s No Evidence of It.
            
Next >
 The Resilience of the Class of 2021
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











