https://wics.ics.uci.edu/apply-to-wics-committee





Apply to WICS Committee – Women in Information and Computer Sciences













































































Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







Apply to WICS Committee 








WICS Committee Applications are NOW OPEN!

Committee Application: https://bit.ly/WICSxCommitteeApps22
Committee members gain important skills in networking, planning, and management, and interact frequently with company representatives during the planning process. This is also an incredible resume builder and demonstrates leadership and initiative to future employers or graduate programs.
Our committee is a  3+ hour commitment per week including committee meetings and some outside work, and will require more time in the weeks before the events. Committee members are required to attend WICS events to understand how the organization works, with the exception of classes overlapping with events. Our main events are:
– Mock Technical Interviews in the Winter quarter that involves having mock technical interviews with real company engineers.
– annual WICS Games, where students and company representatives come together for a night of friendly competition, learning and prizes!
– A series of workshops for general WICS members to provide knowledge and hands on experience about topics that are not taught in detail in class such as making apps and websites.
– Give back to the community for girls in local elementary/middle/high schools.  WICS volunteers will teach girls Computer Science and/or engineering concepts via different methods such as littleBits and app jams.





 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 3: WICS Games



October 10 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 
 

 




















































































Loading Comments...



 


Write a Comment...




Email (Required)



Name (Required)



Website







































































