https://wics.ics.uci.edu/spring-quarter-2017-week-3-riot-tour





Spring Quarter 2017 Week 3: Riot Tour – Women in Information and Computer Sciences

















































































Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







Blogs 












News 


Spring Quarter 2017 Week 3: Riot Tour 

 05/13/2017Vivian Thach



On the 13th of April. WICS toured Riot Games’ corporate campus in Los Angeles to gain insight of the game development industry as well as learn what drives the success behind Riot’s popular game, League of Legends.
Upon our arrival at the campus, we were warmly greeted by Grant Cushman, Riot’s University Relations Recruiter, who was our guide for the tour. After getting our name tags, Grant gave us a brief introduction to what League of Legends is and shared with us how it has grew to become a big part of competitive eSports. We were then greeted by a large Annie and Tibbers statue in the main lobby and all of us were excited to take pictures with it. Next, we were led to see meeting rooms themed after League of Legends’ champions, a cafe with a Bilgewater (pirate) interior, a large cafeteria serving a wide selection of food, an arcade filled with retro game machines, an internet cafe lined with rows of gaming computers and open workspaces in which almost every desk had at least two monitors and a hardworking employee. 
Our tour was wrapped up by a Q&A session with 3 software engineers who worked in different departments. They shed some light into the life of working in a game company, the challenges they face as well as how working in the game industry contrasts to working in other industries. Since we were a small group of 18, we were able to ask all of our questions and learned a lot from these experienced programmers. We were also inspired by how Riot employees seemed to have a “work hard, play hard” philosophy, as many of them play games together while still taking their work very seriously. 
Overall, we are truly grateful to Riot Games for giving us this opportunity to tour their campus as we learned a lot about the game industry. Thanks to everyone who participated and we hope to see you again!
Share this:Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Related
 

 

Post navigation
AspireIT 2017Fall Quarter 2017 Week 0: WICS Social
 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Committee Applications Panel



October 19 @ 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 








































