https://wics.ics.uci.edu/grace-hopper-celebration-2014





Grace Hopper Celebration 2014  – Women in Information and Computer Sciences




















































































Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







Blogs 












News 


Grace Hopper Celebration 2014 

 11/19/201411/21/2014admin




During Week One, seventeen female students were sponsored by the Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Science to attend the annual Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing in Phoenix, Arizona. This three-day event from October 8-10th featured keynotes from several influential women in tech and offered useful workshops ranging from technical talks to panels on wearable technology to professional advice on communicating and working in industry. Over 8000 attendees came to this annual event, making this the largest gathering of women in computing.
One of the best parts about the Grace Hopper Conference is the career fair. Attendees get a chance to network with representatives from big tech companies such as Google, Microsoft, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Yahoo, and other smaller companies. Every company was offering full-time jobs or internship opportunities, which is a great way for students to get into industry. Some people were even able to interview at the career fair. In addition to networking, attendees were able to collect swag, which including stuff like shirts, chargers, earphones, stickers, and other electronic gadgets. Snacks were provided throughout the day. There were also cool giveaways and raffles where attendees could win video games, iPads, and even an Xbox One! One of our members, Nikita Thakore, won an iPad mini!
At night, there were dances and parties where the attendees can socialize and network with other women. Dessert and other appetizers were provided. It was fun and definitely a highlight of the trip.
From talking to company representatives and other women in computing to listening to presentations to going to parties, the Grace Hopper Conference is an unforgettable event that every woman in tech should attend.
Next year, WICS will be sponsoring members to go to the Grace Hopper Celebration, which will be held in Houston, Texas. Join the committee for a higher chance to attend!
Share this:Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Related
 

 

Post navigation
WICS First General Meeting and Mentorship Mixer ’14iOS Beginner Workshop
 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Committee Applications Panel



October 19 @ 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 
 

 




















































































Loading Comments...



 


Write a Comment...




Email (Required)



Name (Required)



Website











































































