http://cradl.ics.uci.edu/?page_id=420





Werner Beuschel, Visiting Prof./Researcher | CRADL Lab




























Home
News
People
Projects
Publications
 













Werner Beuschel, Visiting Prof./Researcher


 Full profile






Werner Beuschel, Visiting Prof./Researcher
 Projects: Social Media use in higher education; Information architecture and usability of open design systems with touchboards
 Website
 Research areas: Web 2.0 and Social Media; Design Thinking; Information Management; CSCL(Computer Supported Cooperative Learning) and e-Learning


 Dr. Werner Beuschel is professor em. of Information Management at Brandenburg University of Applied Sciences in Germany. He holds a degree in Mechanical Engineering and a diploma (master) in Informatics from the Technical University Berlin, where he also acquired his Ph.D. in 1987. He spent several years as an engineer in industry and as a researcher at the Social Science Center Berlin. From 1989-91 he was a Research Scientist with ICS/UC Irvine. Dr. Beuschel lectured at several institutions in Germany, Finland, and at ICS. He also taught numerous Web-based courses online. In 1994 he started the Business Informatics curriculum at Brandenburg. From 1999 to 2003 he co-directed the federal project “Virtual University of Applied Sciences” in Germany, which resulted in offering online education for bachelor and master degrees over the past 10 years at several universities. He is Associate Editor for a journal and member of the Editorial Review Board for a book series, both on the topic of Web-based learning, issued by Idea Group Inc., Hershey/MA. As part of a long-term collaborative effort, he and students tested usability features of a touchboard drawing system, developed by the Continuous Coordination group in Informatics. His recent publications center on the integration of Web 2.0-tools and Social Media into higher education. 


















News


SuCSES is coming!


Site Tools

Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.org

 


CRADL receives funding from the National Science Foundation under grants 0943262, 0808783, and 1111446.
 
Department of Informatics | Donald Bren School of Information and Computer SciencesBren Hall 5042 | University of California, Irvine | Irvine, CA 92697-3440cradl_info@ics.uci.edu
 
Powered by WordPress | Theme: Yoko by Elmastudio | Header image: E. Howe
Top




