https://wics.ics.uci.edu/wics-spring-quarter-week-8-paciolan-job-shadowing





WICS Spring Quarter Week 8: Paciolan Job Shadowing – Women in Information and Computer Sciences

















































































Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







Blogs 







 




News 


WICS Spring Quarter Week 8: Paciolan Job Shadowing 

 05/24/201907/10/2019admin



On Thursday, May 23rd, WICS members visited Paciolan for a job shadowing day! Twelve WICS members arrived at 9:30am and were greeted by Will Jang, the Director of Software Engineering, who took the members straight into shadowing his stand-up meeting. After the stand-up, the members and Paciolan engineers split up into two groups: software engineering and UX and then they had a short mixer to pair off for the next hour of one-on-one shadowing. During the one-on-one shadowing, the members got to learn what Paciolan engineers do on an everyday basis and ask them any questions. Later on, the WICS members attended a Q&A session with Kim Damron, President and CEO of Paciolan, and Keith White, the Chief Technology Officer, where they received valuable career and personal advice. After, the WICS members and engineers they shadowed were able to eat lunch together at Paciolan to bond even more! Once lunch was over, some students continued to shadow at Paciolan while others had to sadly return back to campus. 
This job shadowing event at Paciolan was a huge success- many of the members that went were happy that they were able to learn about what it’s like to be a full-time engineer and expressed interest for future job shadowing events. Thank you to Paciolan for this amazing opportunity! 















































 



Share this:Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Related
 

 

Post navigation
WICS Spring Quarter Week 7: Resume WorkshopWICS Spring Quarter Week 6: Intuit Tour
 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 3: WICS Games



October 10 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 











































