https://wics.ics.uci.edu/katie-khu





Katie Khu – Women in Information and Computer Sciences



















































 
























Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







Katie Khu 






 

Katie Khu

Why do you think WICS is helpful?
I wanted to join WICS because I was originally a Pharmaceutical Sciences major who decided to switch to Computer Science, and I had no idea how I would navigate this whole new world. WICS provided me with a plethora of opportunities to see different career paths and converse with students and companies. The organization essentially supported me in my transition to software engineering, and I still keep in touch with the friends that I’ve made from the events, some of whom I am currently working in the same state with. Most of all, I received my internship and job opportunities as a result of being in WICS.

What did you do for WICS? (events, new ideas, etc)
I first started out as a WICS general member and excitedly joined the committee, where I was placed into the Corporate Committee. Then I ran for Treasurer before I started leading WICS as co-president in 2016-2017. I was always excited to work on outreach projects, because I knew first-hand how overwhelming computer science can seem, especially in the beginning. Therefore, I focused heavily on outreach and co-wrote a proposal that won the $10,000 Trailblazer Award from NCWIT, which were used to create a mentorship program for Undeclared majors here at UCI.

Were there any memorable events that you felt were a huge success? What did you like about them?
One of my favorite events was a social game night where we just brought in a bunch of board games and food and just enjoyed the time. A few others even surprised the group with Super Smash Bros and that really added to the community spirit that were prevalent that night. It was definitely a great way to get to know people!

What do you do now? What are some achievements you’d like to share?
I am a Software Development Engineer II at Expedia Group, where I work on full-stack applications and know the difference between backend and frontend. 🙂 I’ve also developed some skills in ping pong and foosball!

Do you have any words of wisdom to share to females in STEM?
When I switched majors to Computer Science, I was in my third year and always felt like I was behind. Whenever I introduced myself as a junior, I had to include that I had just switched majors. Lots of imposter syndrome. 
If you’re ever in that position, you have to push through that initial uncomfortable start, because it will get so much better. I remember my struggles to even understand basic CS concepts in the beginning, and now it feels so great to pick things up quickly as I become familiarized with different technologies. It also helps to have some support, whether that means coming to a WICS meeting for the first time, speaking to your classmate that sits on the right, or coming to your professor/TA’s office hours. It is immensely important to ask questions and let people know when you need help or don’t understand something – we all started from somewhere.
For those that are headed to their first job, I will give you similar advice. Be okay with not knowing much, but immerse yourself and you’ll look back a year later and see how much you have grown. As an entry-level engineer, you are not expected to know everything, but do try to put some effort in to look up things that are foreign to you. When it takes a lot more time to understand something, it would be much better to speak to someone more senior and have them clarify the concept/tech. Good luck and have fun in the process!


 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 3: WICS Games



October 10 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 



































