https://wics.ics.uci.edu/janay-nunez





Janay Nunez – Women in Information and Computer Sciences



















































 
























Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







Janay Nunez 






 

Janay Nunez

What did you do for WICS? (events, new ideas, etc)
Katie Khuu and I switched the Projects committee to the Community Outreach committee, and at the end of our tenure made the position require two people to head it. We had a board retreat over the summer to plan events, and when we interviewed people for committee, we opened it up to the rest of board members to interview them as well. We also applied for and got a $22k NCWIT grants (student seed fund I think it was?), as well as secured Google and Facebook as corporate sponsors for the first time. 

Why do you think WICS is helpful?
I was scared to send emails when I first started, going from that to becoming president and having to send emails all the time was a huge journey for me. I also learned a lot about leadership and working with others, both from being led and then learning what I liked/disliked from that, and then applying it as Marketing chair and then President.
I also didn’t know I could be a president until I was. I was scared of running because of the public speaking aspect of being a president. But then the more I thought about it, the more I felt like I really had something to contribute, and that if I didn’t try, I would be doing myself and club a disservice.

Were there any memorable events that you felt were a huge success? What did you like about them?
I’m totally drawing a blank – everything? There were a lot of events we already carried on from previous years like WICS Games and Mock Tech Interviews that I really loved. Oh wait – I was super proud of our first WICS Retreat that we did in Lake Arrowhead (I think that was the place…). That felt like a huge accomplishment because we had always wanted one and never had one and the trip actually went well and people liked it!

What do you do now? What are some achievements you’d like to share?
I work as a software engineer at Google on the Play Store for Android TV. Our redesign just got announced at Google I/O here: https://9to5google.com/2019/05/07/android-tv-play-store-redesign/

Do you have any words of wisdom to share to females in STEM?
Believe in yourself! I almost didn’t apply to Google because I was terrified of the interview process and didn’t think I could get in. I really mean that – I did not think I could make it AT ALL. But then I thought, what do you have to lose? And boom, I did it. 



 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 3: WICS Games



October 10 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 



































