http://www.ics.uci.edu/~stasio/winter04/outline.html


ICS 280: Tentative Course Outline

ICS 280, Winter'04
Tentative list of subjects we will cover:





				Fundamentals of Crypto Theory:
			


					One-way functions:  This is the fundamental concept of functions 
					which are easy to compute but hard to invert.  We will show how to 
					construct them from number theoretical assumptions. We will see 
					that one-wayness is necessary for many crypto objects, like encryption, 
					signature, key agreement.

					Hard-core bits:  Just because some value is hard to compute, it doesn't 
					mean that all bits of that value are hard to compute.  This is important, 
					because if you encrypt something, you need to know not just that the message is 
					hard to compute by the eavesdropper, but that every bit in the message is hard 
					to compute (because maybe the attacker cares about this one bit, which encodes 
					for example whether someone is depositing or withdrawing his money).  We 
					show a fundamental result of cryptography that one-wayness implies hard-core 
					bits.

					Pseudorandom generators: the fundamental concept of pseudorandomness, its 
					applications, and constructions (from hard-core bits).

					Pseudorandom functions:  Constructions (from pseudorandom generators), 
					applications.

				Symmetric cryptography:  We will break from the above chain 
				of increasingly more complex cryptographic objects, and we will map 
				these concepts to the world of symmetric cryptography.  We 
				will substitute here a number-theoretical assumptions of hardness with 
				various assumptions on the basic building blocks of symmetric crypto, but we 
				will show that the same approach to the provably secure design applies 
				here.   The topics will include:


					Construction of one-way permutation from one-way function

					Accumulation of "hardness" in rounds of block ciphers
				

					Cascade construction of pseudorandom functions

					Collision-resistance, construction of secure message message 
					authentication codes

					Construction of secure symmetric encryption

				Assymetric cryptography:
			


					Signature schemes: definitions, constructions from general assumptions 
					(assuming one-way functions)

					Public key encryption: definitions, constructions

				The so-called "Random Oracle Model" model for analysis of security:  
				Bridging the efficiency gap between assymetric and symmetric 
				cryptography: 
			


					constructions (pseudorandom generators, pseudorandom functions, signatures, 
					encryption schemes)

					limitations (impossibility results)

				Time permitting, in the few last lectures we will review some advanced topics:


					more efficient constructions (signatures, encryption, pseudorandom 
					functions), from stronger number theoretic assumptions (decisional 
					assumptions, strong RSA)

					zero-knowledge protocols

					commitment schemes

					multi-party computation
				

					composable security

					homomorphic encryption schemes






Last modified: 01 Dec 2003
		


