https://wics.ics.uci.edu/week-3-wicsvgdc-workshop/?afg45_page_id=1
 




WICS & VGDC Resume Workshop – Women in Information and Computer Sciences

















































































Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







Blogs 












News, Workshop 


WICS & VGDC Resume Workshop 

 11/21/201406/17/2015Ivan Law



WICS & VGDC Resume Workshop
by Michelle Tjoa
On Monday, the 21st day of October in the Donald Bren of ICS building, WICS and VGDC had a joint Resume workshop.  Around 50+ people came to either help others or be helped.  What was amazing about the event was the great amount of inputs from all those who were experienced and wanted to help by sharing their knowledge and experience with others and also the deep interest those who didn’t have experience or wanted to learn.  All the members learned how to improve or start resumes which can help in the long run with resume building and career searching.  When I went to the resume workshop I was also amazed at how many people were really involved and really wanted to improve their resume and what they had in their resume.  It was also interesting to see people quickly build the resume they didn’t have before coming to the workshop.  I also brought a resume and got tips and pointers on how to improve the resume and learning new tips and lessons I didn’t know or thought about before.  There are simple little things that could be overlooked, like a bigger name, better organization of resumes and the list goes on.  The people who were helping out were also really reliable and professional, so the sources were very trustworthy.  It was also a great experience to meet other people, who were just as involved, excited, and friendly. Can’t wait for the next resume workshop to meet new people and improve my resume once again.
                           « prev      1   2   3   4   5      next »  (17 Photos)
Share this:Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Related
 

 

Post navigation
iOS Beginner WorkshopFacebook Women Panel
 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Committee Applications Panel



October 19 @ 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 






























