http://www.ics.uci.edu/~stasio/fall04/reading.html


ICS 180: Reference Radings


ICS 268, Fall'04

			Background Reading

back to course main page






			The textbook in the class is Douglas R. Stinson, Cryptography: Theory and 
				Practice (2nd edition) .  This is a very good reference book for 
			a lot of the material we will cover, but quite a lot of the material 
			we will do is not covered by this book.
		
Below are pointers to both on-line and off-line background material for 
			this class.  You might find them especially helpful when you run into 
			problems understanding something, would like to see an alternative 
			treatment of some subject, etc.
		

			(Notice of intellectual credit:  The list I'm giving here started by 
			editing a list compiled by Tal Malkin
			for the "intro to crypto" class she teaches at Columbia.)
Main reference, available on-line:
		
S. Goldwasser and M. Bellare: 
Lecture Notes on Cryptography.  This is the closest thing 
			to a "text book" for this class.  These are notes from a summer 
			cryptography class given by profs. Shafi Goldwasser and Mihir Bellare at MIT. 
			 The treatment here is focused on the theoretical foundations of 
			cryptography.  This is similar to our approach in this class, although on 
			a more advanced level and sometimes in a different order.  I very much 
			encourage you to look into this text for reference.
Other cryptography lecture notes available on-line:
		

			The following collections of lecture notes take a (more or less) similar 
			approach to the one we take in this class (except of Bellare/Rogaway notes 
			which emphasize symmetric setting more than we will).  
		


				M. Bellare and P. Rogaway:  
Lecture Notes
			for a graduate cryptography course at UCSD.  The approach here is still 
			aimed towards precise definitions and provable security, although more emphasis 
			is given to practical considerations.
			
				T. Malkin: Lecture 
						Notes. These are lecture notes from Tal Malkin's 
					Intro to Crypto
			class she taught at Columbia this fall. They are less polished then the first 
			two above, but the arrangement of the material is closer to our class.
			
				J. Katz: Lecture Notes. 
				These are lecture notes from the Intro 
					to Crypto
			class Jonathan Katz thought last year at University of Maryland.
			
				The link to a graduate 
					Intro to Crypto class of Yevgeni Dodis at NYU contains a very good 
				writeup of Yevgeni's lectures on this topic (click "Lecture Summaries")
Cryptography Texts available on-line and as books:
		
Oded Goldreich's notes for his 
				Foundation of Cryptography book are available on-line.  Oded's 
			work is a comprehensive treatment of the theoretical foundations of 
			cryptography and it covers the material in far greater depth that our 
			class.  It is recommended as a background reading, especially 
			for students who are interested in conducting research in cryptography.


Foundations of 
					Cryptography (Fragments of a Book).
			This the the on-line material which is superseded by Volume I of Oded's 
			Foundation of Cryptography which appeared in print and is available in the UCI 
			science library.
			
Foundations, 
					volume II. The material of the second part of the book, which will 
				appear in print this coming spring, is available on-line at the bottom of this 
				page.
The following is a comprehensive reference book for all areas in 
			cryptography. It has a less careful approach to definitions and proofs of 
			security than we do, but it is a very good reference text.  It is 
			available chapter by chapter from the book website:


				A.J. Menezes, P.C. van Oorschot, and S.A. Vanstone: 
Handbook of Applied Cryptography


On the opposite end of the theory-vs-practice spectrum, the following book 
			presents only a very intuitive treatment of cryptography, and is a useful 
			reference for software implementation (which we do not address in the class).
		


				B. Schneier: Applied Cryptography.

Material available on-line on (computational) number theory and its 
					cryptographic applications:
				


Some excellent references for computational number theory and applied algebra 
			include:
		


				D. Angluin: Lecture Notes on the Complexity of Some Problems in Number Theory. 
				Available for download from Tal Malkin's website at Columbia: (ps
				| pdf). 
			 This is a short review of number theory and its computational 
			aspects.  It is sufficient for the needs of our class.
			
				V. Shoup:  A 
					Computational Introduction to Number Theory and Algebra. This is a very 
				comprehensive introduction to algorithmic number theory, with all the necessary 
				mathematical  background self-contained.  This is a BETA version, but 
				in good shape.
			

Background Readings on Computability/Complexity 
Background reading on discrete math, probability, algorithms and complexity 
			theory can be found in several of the above references (in particular the one 
			by Shoup, by Menezes, van Oorschot, and Vanstone, and by Wenbo Mao.  
			The following two books are excellent stand-alone textbooks for, 
			respectively, complexity and algorithms:
		


				M. Sipser: 
					Introduction to the Theory of Computation. See chapter 0 for basic 
			discrete math, and chapter 7 for basic complexity notions.
			
				T. H. Cormen, C. E. Leiserson, R. L, Rivest, C. Stein: Introduction 
					to Algorithms. See first part for introduction to algorithms and 
				randomized algorithms, and appendix for discrete math and probability overview:
Non-Technical Reading on Cryptography
Some interesting non-technical books about the history of cryptology (which will 
			not be addressed in this class), include the following two, originally written 
			in 1967 and 1999, respectively.
		


				D. Kahn:  The Codebreakers -- The Comprehensive History of Secret 
						Communication from Ancient Times to the Internet. 

				S. Singh:
				 The Code Book 
  -- The Secret History of Codes and Code Breaking.
				








