https://wics.ics.uci.edu/innovate





#innovate 2019 – Women in Information and Computer Sciences

















































































Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







Blogs 







 




News, Outreach 


#innovate 2019 

 04/03/201904/03/2019admin



February 13, 2019 – March 29, 2019
During this winter, WICS worked together with Avika Patel, an NCWIT Aspirations in Computing Award recipient from Woodbridge High School to arrange yet another successful AspireIT program. In this year’s #innovate program hosted at Lakeside Middle School, we conducted a series of seven workshops which introduced the girls to block coding, robotics, app development, and web development. 
	The first workshop was on robotics, for which we used Spheros. The students were exposed to the key concepts of rotation, speed, and direction while they tried to program the robots to move through a maze. When it came to the second day, the students had the opportunity to be creative with their projects by making games using Scratch and Makey-Makey. The projects allowed the students to incorporate unique features such as different sounds, backgrounds, and characters. 
The third and fourth workshops gave a solid introduction to web development using HTML and CSS. During this transition from block-based coding to text-based coding, the students designed their own websites and personalized them using CSS features. These workshops in particular were enjoyed by the students as they were able to make very intricate and personal projects. The fifth and sixth workshops introduced the final topic of the program, app development using Thunkable. Using the simple block-based coding platform, the students were able to create interesting mobile applications and test them out on their own devices. 
 The seventh workshop was a project day, where the students had time to go back and create a project using the new tools they learnt about over the program.  On the final day of the program, we went on a tour to Google Irvine, where students were able to attend a panel of Google software engineers and learn more about software careers. To learn more about our future programs, sign up for the WICS newsletter!










































 



Share this:Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Related
 

 

Post navigation
WICS Winter Quarter Week 10: WICS PotluckBytes of Code 2019
 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 3: WICS Games



October 10 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 











































