https://wics.ics.uci.edu/wics-winter-quarter-week-6-ace-your-technical-interview-workshop-with-amazon





WICS Winter Quarter Week 6: Ace Your Technical Interview Workshop with Amazon – Women in Information and Computer Sciences

















































































Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







Blogs 







 




News 


WICS Winter Quarter Week 6: Ace Your Technical Interview Workshop with Amazon 

 02/12/202002/23/2020admin



On Monday, February 10th, WICS hosted two engineers from Amazon who shared insight into the recruitment process at their company. There was a good turnout of over 50 people, which completely filled the room. After everyone got their pizza and settled in, the Amazon representatives they started their presentation with tips about uploading and creating unique resumes. They highly encouraged students to upload their resumes and to keep them updated. They described resumes as the “window into your life” and recommended making resumes stand out and reflect the applicant’s character. They went on to talk about one aspect they love about Amazon, which is that it is constantly changing and taking into account the ideas of even the most recent interns. Afterwards, they dove into the details of the recruitment process, which includes a technical, virtual, and behavior interview. They also talked about the fourteen leadership principles of Amazon (customer obsession, ownership, think big, etc.), which they claimed are always evolving and also are helpful for outside the workplace. The first half of the presentation wrapped up with a Q&A session, in which the audience was very engaged and asked lots of questions. After a brief break, the representatives went into the Mock Interview portion of their presentation. They asked behavioral questions and encouraged audience participation to build the scenario starting from the problem to how it was resolved. Next they went over things to focus on during technical interviews and encouraged the audience to ask questions about the technical question. Overall the presentation was very informative and engaging.













































































 


Share this:Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Related
 

 

Post navigation
WICS Winter Quarter Week 5: CrowdStrike Open HouseWICS Winter Quarter Week 7: Just Code It! Program Accomplished
 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Committee Applications Panel



October 19 @ 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 











































