https://wics.ics.uci.edu/wics-winter-quarter-week-7-just-code-it-program-accomplished





WICS Winter Quarter Week 7: Just Code It! Program Accomplished – Women in Information and Computer Sciences

















































































Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







Blogs 







 




News 


WICS Winter Quarter Week 7: Just Code It! Program Accomplished 

 02/24/202003/02/2020admin



On Saturday, February 22nd, WICS finished their Just Code It outreach program. In these four weeks, we provided workshops that were geared for young middle school girls. The workshops taught students basic fundamental programming skills for website development. The lesson plan began with Day 1: CSS and HTML, Day 2: Javascript, Day 3: Bootstrap, and Day 4: Projects. Lessons were interactive, and teachers began with a blank file and built a website along with the class. Students were encouraged to ask questions to help them learn the material faster and better. Other mentors were in the room to help guide them through the lessons. After every lesson,  students exercised with the new programming language by building a website of their own. And finally on the very last day of the program, students were set to the task to make a final project utilizing the material they learned from the past few weeks. Finally, they presented their projects to the class and their parents. Students were able to make creative and impressive websites ranging from an online personality assessment to interactive baking recipes. Overall, the program went by smoothly and WICS was lucky to be able to provide young females inspiration and empowerment for the field of technology. Many of the students have never programmed before, and were able to come out of this program learning four new languages!















































 


Share this:Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Related
 

 

Post navigation
WICS Winter Quarter Week 6: Ace Your Technical Interview Workshop with AmazonWICS Winter Quarter Week 8: Negotiation Panel
 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Committee Applications Panel



October 19 @ 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 











































