https://wics.ics.uci.edu/wics-winter-quarter-week-8-negotiation-panel





WICS Winter Quarter Week 8: Negotiation Panel – Women in Information and Computer Sciences

















































































Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







Blogs 







 




News 


WICS Winter Quarter Week 8: Negotiation Panel 

 02/26/202003/02/2020admin



On Monday, February 24th, WICS invited panelists from Experian, Google, Redfin and UCI to talk about negotiations in the workplace. Over 50 students were in attendance – it was a full house. After getting some pizza and refreshments, the panel gave attendants insight into the different aspects of negotiating, including why negotiating is important and the steps to starting the process of negotiation. The panelists encouraged students to negotiate right from the beginning because it shows confidence and sets them up for long-term success. From a business perspective, they informed us that recruiters look for people that negotiate, even if they are coming right out of college. They also talked about starting the negotiating process only after receiving an offer in writing, never before. The panelists pushed the students in attendance to think about applying for tougher jobs that challenge them and help them grow in their careers. Overall, the panelists and students had an honest conversation about the negotiation process and gave us many tips that could help students in all fields and levels.
















































































































 


Share this:Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Related
 

 

Post navigation
WICS Winter Quarter Week 7: Just Code It! Program Accomplished“Things I Wish I Knew” as a Computer Science (or related) Major
 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Committee Applications Panel



October 19 @ 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 











































