https://wics.ics.uci.edu/inittogether





Init (Together) 2013 – Women in Information and Computer Sciences

















































































Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







Blogs 












init (together) 


Init (Together) 2013 

 04/20/201307/05/2018admin



Sunday, April 14th, 2013, WICS started the first init(together) Southern California Conference for Women in Computing with the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. This conference was created with the vision of bringing together a community of the new generation of women in computing under the guidance of the many active groups of women in technology in Southern California.
‘init,’ short for ‘initialize,’ symbolizes the beginning of a new generation of women starting their careers in computing. Combined, init(together) signifies women beginning their computing careers with the support of mentors, with peers as collaborators and most importantly: connected together as an active and vibrant community.
WICS created this conference to inspire women to confidently pursue jobs and internships, start their own tech projects, engage in computing challenges or competitions, and openly collaborate with their peers and mentors.
Over 300 women attended init(together), which featured a series of panel discussions and hands-on workshops for women seeking to develop their skills in computing. A mentorship program was also launched to connect female computing students and women entering industry with faculty and industry professionals in Southern California. There was also a Career Expo that featured a variety of companies and programs in Southern California, which brought industries directly to attendees.
init(together) was a huge success and WICS plans on hosting this event every other year in the spring!
For more information on init(together), check out the website!
                 « prev      1   2   3      next »  (12 Photos)
Share this:Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Related
 

 

Post navigation
WICS hosts a “Toy Hacking” Workshop with Dr. Garnet HertzWestern Digital Tour & Luncheon with Female Engineers
 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 3: WICS Games



October 10 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 








































