https://cwicsocal18.ics.uci.edu/faq









FAQ – CWIC SoCal 2018























































































CWIC SoCal 2018




















Home
Program
Speakers
Participate
Sponsors

Sponsor Information
Current Sponsors


FAQ
Leadership
Photos





























HomeFAQ




Frequently Asked Questions
What is CWIC-SoCal?
The Celebration of Women in Computing – Southern California (CWIC-SoCal), an ACM-W Event, brings together students, faculty, and industry to celebrate the contributions of women in computing.
Is the event exclusive to women?
No, everyone is welcome to attend.
When will the conference start/end?
9AM-7PM on Sunday, April 15, 2018
Where can I register?
You can purchase your ticket here: https://www.eventbrite.com/o/women-in-information-and-computer-sciences-an-acm-w-chapter-16758448685
All registrants MUST fill out this Google form: http://bit.ly/CWICRegistration
What does the conference cost?
External funding will cover most of the cost. The registration fee is $25 for undergraduate and graduate students, which includes food. Faculty and industry attendee registration fee is $50. There is also a $5 parking pass attendees will have to purchase for each car (we encourage all attendees to carpool).
For those who are coming from schools that are 100+ miles from the event, there is a $40 registration fee that will include lodging for Saturday evening at DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel Santa Ana (201 East MacArthur Blvd, Santa Ana). Those that are purchasing this ticket will also have to purchase a parking pass if they plan to park at the event. (This ticket is ONLY for attendees that are located 100+ miles.) *
Please contact the conference Co-Chairs for details (kmlo@uci.edu or sbahrami@calpoly.edu).
*Lodging tickets must be purchased by March 23rd.
My registration included a quad-occupancy hotel room. Can I choose my roommates? When will I found out who my roommates are?
You cannot choose your roommates. The rooming assignments take your university into account so if there are other students from the same school as you attending, it’s likely that you’ll be sharing a room with them. You will find out who your roommates are on the week of the conference.
Can I still register?
Yes, if there are available tickets on the Eventbrite page, you may purchase a ticket. Attendees that purchase tickets and fill out the Google form prior to March 31, 2018 will be guaranteed their requested t-shirt size.
What if I don’t know anything about computer science?
Then you really should come! You’ll learn a lot.
Can I submit work that I’ve already submitted/has already been published in another conference?
Yes!
Is there a template for the submissions? Any guidance in what to submit?
There is no template and not format to adhere to, as long as you stick to the document formats (PDF) and the specified page limit. Use whatever format you feel most comfortable with. You are welcome to use a format you’ve used for another conference. As for the content, strong abstracts will clearly address what you will be presenting and why it would be of interest to this audience.
EasyChair asks for both an abstract and a submission. Do I need to submit both? What do I submit where?
You should submit your 1 or 2-page description of what you will present as your submission, not as the abstract EasyChair requests. For the abstract EasyChair wants, simply describe your work in a few sentences. These abstracts will not be reviewed, but will be used to help to assign your paper to reviewers. The submission is the only thing we will review. Please note that we will not be able to accept any submissions longer than the 1 or 2-page limit so you should not submit any document longer than that.
Link to submission site: https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=cwicsocal2018
Where will the conference be in 2018?
UCI Student Center, Pacific Ballroom
311 W Peltason Dr, Irvine, CA 92697
























evolve theme by Theme4Press  •  Powered by WordPress 




















