https://cwicsocal18.ics.uci.edu/participate









Participate – CWIC SoCal 2018























































































CWIC SoCal 2018




















Home
Program
Speakers
Participate
Sponsors

Sponsor Information
Current Sponsors


FAQ
Leadership
Photos





























HomeParticipate




Participate
The Celebration of Women in Computing in Southern California (CWIC-SoCal), an ACM-W event, will be held on April 15th, 2018 at the UC Irvine Student Center in Irvine, CA. The purpose of this celebration is to bring together women from Southern California who are interested in computer science and information technology to network, to learn, and to have fun. Attendees will include women at all stages of their education and careers, from high school through professionals. Attendees early in their education will have the opportunity to find mentors and to learn about careers and advanced education in computing. Those further along in their education and careers will have the opportunity to share their work, to mentor those just getting started, and to meet new friends and colleagues.
We invite the submission for proposals for participation in the following session categories: student research presentations, faculty/research lightning talks, posters, and demos.
Registration available here (use your school email when registering) : https://www.eventbrite.com/e/socal-celebration-of-women-in-computing-tickets-42970468829 

Also, fill out this attendee form to ensure you receive a shirt and your resume is in the online database: http://bit.ly/CWICRegistration

Student Presentations – We invite technical presentations from students at all stages of their education (high school, undergraduate, or graduate). If you have been involved in a research project, internship, co-op, service-learning, or other interesting experience related to computer science or information technology, this is an opportunity to share that experience with others and perhaps to inspire them to pursue similar opportunities. Student talks will be approximately 10 minutes long, with additional time for questions. Please submit a 2-page (max) description for your talk. Note that EasyChair will ask you to submit both an abstract and a submission. The abstract is a short summary of your work and will not be reviewed. The 2-page description should be uploaded as your submission. Note that we will not be able to accept submissions longer than 2 pages. Also, please indicate whether you are a graduate student, an undergraduate student, or a high school student, as these categories will be reviewed separately. If your talk is not accepted for presentation, your abstract will automatically be reviewed for presentation as a poster.
Faculty/Researcher Lightning Talks – We invite short, informal “lightning talks” from faculty and researchers in academia, research labs, and industry. These talks will be about 5 minutes long, with additional time for questions. They are ideal for highlighting an interesting project, sharing an idea you’ve had, or talking about anything else that excites you about the computing field. We hope these talks will inspire conversations at the conference and afterwards. Please submit a 1-page (max) description of your talk. Note that EasyChair will ask you to submit both an abstract and a submission. The abstract is just a short summary of your work and will not be reviewed. The 1-page description should be uploaded as your submission. Note that we will not be able to accept submissions longer than 1 page.
Posters and Demos – We invite posters from all students on any topic related to computer science or information technology. Posters are an easy way to share your ideas and experiences with others. If your project is interactive, we encourage you to also bring a demo. Please submit a 1-page description (max) of your poster. Note that EasyChair will ask you to submit both an abstract and a submission. The abstract is just a short summary of your work and will not be reviewed. The 1-page description should be uploaded as your submission. Note that we will not be able to accept submissions longer than 1 page. Please indicate whether or not you have a demo, and if so, what resources you will need (power, table space, etc.) to give your demo.

In addition, if you have an idea for a Panel or a Workshop for the conference, please send email directly to the Program Chair (Tzu-Yi Chen) at the address cwicsocal2018@easychair.org describing your idea using the subject “CWIC-SoCal Panel/Workshop idea”.
All submissions must be in PDF format and should be submitted via the EasyChair system at https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=cwicsocal2018. If you do not have an EasyChair account, you will need to create one before you submit. Submissions are not anonymous.
** ATTENTION ** The deadline for submissions is February 16, 2018. We will send out notifications by March 15, 2018.
If you have any questions, please contact the Program Chair:
Dr. Tzu-Yi Chen, Pomona College, TzuYi.Chen@pomona.edu
























evolve theme by Theme4Press  •  Powered by WordPress 




















