https://wics.ics.uci.edu/history-of-wics





History of WICS – Women in Information and Computer Sciences













































































Skip to content












 











Home
About

What We Do
Current Officers
Previous Officers
Awards and Accomplishments
History of WICS


Events

Events Calendar
Blogs
Conferences

vGHC 2021
vGHC 2020
CWIC Socal 2018
Init (Together)




Community Outreach

About Community Outreach
Just Code It
Bytes of Code

Bytes of Code 2019
Bytes of Code Summer 2018


#innovate

#innovate 2019
#innovate Spring 2018


#GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference
ExploreICS


Join Us!

Membership Signup
Apply to WICS Committee
Mentorship Program


Contact Us

Contact Us
Support Us


 







History of WICS 








History of WICS
Women in Information and Computer Sciences (WICS) was established in 1995. Dr. Debra Richardson, longtime advisor of WICS, was teaching a class of about 100 ICS students, and only 6 of them were women. Seeing that there was both a huge gender gap in the ICS school and a retention issue with females in ICS, Dr. Richardson and one of her graduate students decided to form WICS. Back then, meetings were merely a small group of girls getting together for lunch a few times a year as a means for support.
WICS has grown quite a bit since then. With a much bigger group involved and more succession planning, WICS has become a strong organization dedicated to encouraging women to pursue the computer science field and providing them with the support to achieve these goals. As of 2022, with 12 board members and 4 committees (external affairs, internal affairs, community outreach, and marketing), WICS is able to make a larger impact on female ICS students and support them while they build up their career in the technological field.
 

WICS Alumni 





 

Janay NunezSoftware Engineer, Google 


I also learned a lot about leadership and working with others, both from being led and then learning what I liked/disliked from that.









 

Katie KhuSoftware Engineer, Expedia Group 


I wanted to join WICS because I was originally a Pharmaceutical Sciences major who decided to switch to Computer Science, and I had no idea how I would navigate this whole new world.  









 

Katie YehSoftware Engineer, Intuit 


I was able to get valuable advice from existing members of WICS and they became some of my closest friends, who I still keep in touch with even after college. 







 

 









Upcoming Events




Fall 2022 Week 3: WICS Games



October 10 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm 




Fall 2022 Week 4: Intro to UI/UX Design with Design@UCI



October 17 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm 



View All Events

 

ContactContact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Medium
 

Search







 










			                            © All right reserved                                    
Portfolio Web by Acme Themes 


 











×
Booking Table




 
 



































