https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1813



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



July 19,  2020


ICS Alumnus Mamadou Diallo Wins Galileo Award for Cyber/Science & Technology



Since 2013, Mamadou H. Diallo has worked as a scientist at the Naval Information Warfare Center Pacific (NIWC Pacific), focusing on science and technology activities in the area of cybersecurity. Diallo, who received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. from UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), was recently recognized for his outstanding contributions in the area of Cyber and Science & Technology (C/S&T) with an NIWC Pacific Galileo Award.

“To be considered for this award is a great honor and privilege,” says Diallo, an S&T manager. “It’s an excellent morale-booster that will encourage me to continue doing my best work.” That work spans various areas, including security, privacy, and trust in cloud and autonomic computing, big data and the Internet of Things (IoT); identity and access management (IdAM); secure computing and security requirements; trust management in decentralized applications; dependability in software architecture; and privacy policy languages.

“In addition to researching, developing and demonstrating cybersecurity systems and applications, my research team has produced multiple publications in conferences, journals, books and magazines,” says Diallo. “My team has also produced three U.S. patent awards and multiple patent applications.”
His team has collaborated extensively with researchers from academia, including from UCI. In particular, his team has worked with ICS researchers leading the TIPPERS (Testbed for IoT-based Privacy-Preserving PERvasive Spaces) project. “I have led my team in collaborating with Professor Sharad Mehrotra’s research team in an effort to transition the TIPPERS system into the Navy.” The system aims to protect the privacy of individuals and enterprises in an increasingly interconnected world, and Diallo, working closely with the TIPPERS development team, successfully demonstrated the system on a U.S. Navy destroyer as part of the Trident Warrior 2019 experimentation. “Currently, we are working toward a second demonstration of TIPPERS in a U.S. Navy amphibious assault ship (Landing Helicopter Dock – LHD) as part of the Trident Warrior 2020,” notes Diallo. “Parallel to this activity, we are currently investigating how TIPPERS can be used for COVID-19 contact tracing for the Navy.”
Mehrotra is grateful for Diallo’s “unparalleled perseverance, dedication and vision” in supporting the technology transition. “It has been an absolute pleasure working with Dr. Mamadou Diallo and his team at NIWC over the past four years as we transitioned the TIPPERS smart space platform, developed as a part of the DARPA Brandeis Program, to the US Navy,” says Mehrotra. He looks forward to continuing the partnership.
Diallo is similarly thankful for Mehrotra, who served as his ICS adviser, and for the education he received at UCI. “The scientific knowledge and work ethic I learned during my time at UCI are truly guiding me in my research activities at NIWC Pacific.”
— Shani Murray

ICS Alumnus Mamadou Diallo Wins Galileo Award for Cyber/Science & Technology
< Previous
 Working together, apart can be fraught with misunderstanding
            
Next >
 ICS Team Explores Distance-Based Mental Health Services for Minority Students
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











