https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1903



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



January 11,  2021


Exploring Design + Ethics: Anne Marie Piper and Industry Leaders Help Shift Power Dynamics


Register now for a free virtual panel discussion on Exploring Design + Ethics taking place at 3 p.m. on Jan. 14, 2021. While a discussion about design might seem technical in nature, it is also about empowering people.

“I am privileged and am more likely to overcome adversity simply because I learned a method to solve problems,” explains John B. Johnson in his article, “Design Thinking is a Privileged Way of Thinking.” Johnson has been working to make design thinking more accessible ever since working with a nonprofit in Madagascar. The Exploring Design + Ethics series — hosted by UCI and the creative agency a small studio, where Johnson is an identity architect — is part of that effort.
The first installment of the series focused on innovation and social progress, while the second examined inclusivity. Here, Johnson will be “touching on the disparity of art education in poor communities, the disparity of minority groups in creative leadership, and how design thinking should be looked at as a tool that is accessible to all.”
A featured panelist during this discussion will be Anne Marie Piper, an associate professor in UCI’s Department of Informatics. “I’m excited to share how several research groups in Informatics are rethinking the way we go about design engagements to be more ethical,” says Piper. “Our work questions who is considered a designer and how we might shift power dynamics such that communities take ownership over the process and products of design.”

The following industry leaders will be joining Piper and Johnson in the discussion:
Leonardo De La Rocha, director of Intuit Design System at Intuit;David Hildebrand, head of design for payments, identity & integrity at Lyft;Tricia Choi, director of design systems at Twitch;Michael Dimaano, senior product designer at Ford Motor Co.; andWilliam Ntim, senior UX designer at Home Depot.
“Making these events free and having designers from some of the largest organizations speak is making design thinking more accessible,” says Johnson.
So register today to make sure you don’t miss out on this unique opportunity to learn new perspectives on how to approach problem solving and design effective solutions.
— Shani Murray

Exploring Design + Ethics: Anne Marie Piper and Industry Leaders Help Shift Power Dynamics
< Previous
 UCI researchers use deep learning to identify gene regulation at single-cell level
            
Next >
 Neil Sahota of UC Irvine: “As leaders,we are responsible for the inclusion of our employees. “
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











