https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1879



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



October 26,  2020


Exploring Design + Ethics: Gillian Hayes Discusses Inclusive Design with Industry Leaders

On Nov. 5, 2020 at 3 p.m., UCI and the creative agency a small studio will host a free virtual panel discussion on Exploring Design + Ethics. While an earlier installment of this series focused on innovation and social progress, this event will examine inclusivity.
“Ethical design is necessarily inclusive design,” says Gillian Hayes, vice provost for Graduate Education and Dean of the Graduate Division at UCI. “We simply cannot design ethical systems without being more inclusive of a variety of voices.”

As a featured speaker at the event, Hayes, who is also the Robert A. and Barbara L. Kleist Professor of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), will describe ways to better include everyone in design. In particular, she will challenge attendees to think critically about their own practices toward inclusive and ethical design.
“A wide variety of minoritized groups, including those with disabilities, BIPOC and LGBTQIA, have been left out of much of the technological designs we use every day,” she explains. “We see the results of those exclusions in the ways our products and services have a wide variety of unintended consequences.”
Joining Hayes in this discussion is Mona Sloane, a sociologist at New York University, and the following group of industry leaders:
Gülay Birand, UX lead and product design manager at Facebook;Daniela Busse, VP of XD research and strategy at Wells Fargo;Neveen Moghazy, product design manager at Mailchimp;Brandon Hyman, senior product designer at Hulu; andJohn B. Johnson, identity architect at a small studio.

“We can no longer simply sell our talents to the highest bidder; we must first use our talents to solve problems and help others,” says Johnson, who is helping host the event. “Without helping others as the primary focus, I do not believe ethical design is possible.”
Johnson and his colleagues at a small studio welcome collaborating with UCI to host these Exploring Design + Ethics events. “At a small studio, our mantra is to use our gifts together through design to bring peace to people’s lives,” he says. “Community events like this give us an opportunity to operate in integrity with our mission.”
So be sure to save the date — Nov. 5, 2020 — and register today for this free event.
— Shani Murray

Exploring Design + Ethics: Gillian Hayes Discusses Inclusive Design with Industry Leaders
< Previous
 A Campus Gem: UCI’s Statistical Consulting Services
            
Next >
 How Roblox became the ‘it’ game for tweens — and a massive business
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











