https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1848



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



September 8,  2020


Exploring Design + Ethics: Join Professor Roderic Crooks for a Virtual Discussion with Industry Leaders


“Design has the capacity to improve society — but has it been part of the problem?” This question will guide a discussion taking place at 3 p.m. on Sept. 10 as UCI and the creative agency a small studio host a virtual event on Exploring Design + Ethics.

“We have been seduced by the ‘fail fast’ mantra of startup culture, and in moving so quickly have collectively lost our way from an ethics perspective,” says Daniel Blackburn, who helped bring the event to UCI. The founder of Nilll Design works with various companies and organizations to encourage discussions about the role of designers, product owners, technologists and marketers in shipping responsible products.

“It’s my goal to create space and opportunity to talk about timely and important topics in the areas of design, innovation and social progress,” explains Blackburn. The UCI event is part of a series of discussions focused on ethics. Other series explore brand authenticity (presented with GE) and creative leadership (presented with Mastercard).
For this event, Roderic Crooks, assistant professor of informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), will serve as a keynote speaker.
“There is not a separate world of ethical reasoning specific to commercial platforms,” notes Crooks. “Tech ethics should be made redundant.” Crooks will touch on ways of building ethical reasoning into technology designs, encouraging researchers to look beyond academic endeavors as they consider ramifications of broader technology use.
Additional speakers for the event include:
Renée Cummings, criminologist & AI ethicist;Jinal Shah, vice president of marketing at Feather;Damon Deaner, director of employee experience design at IBM;Josh Neuroth, senior director of product & marketing at Cyxtera Technologies;Ali Hussain, head of user experience & design at American Specialty Health; and John B Johnson, identity architect at a small studio.
Blackburn focused on bringing together a diverse group of perspectives for this exercise in exploring ethics. “In my view, embracing all members of the community — thought leaders, students, academia and everyone in between — will result in the richest dialog possible,” he explains. “It’s also important for the students of today, who will be the product leaders of tomorrow, to have a strong foundation in ethics as it relates to their craft.”
You can register for this free event at Exploring Design + Ethics.
— Shani Murray

Exploring Design + Ethics: Join Professor Roderic Crooks for a Virtual Discussion with Industry Leaders
< Previous
 Colleges reopen with an assist from tech
            
Next >
 Professor Sameer Singh Receives NSF Grant to Explore and Address Vulnerabilities in Machine Learning Explanations
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











