https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1270



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



January 4,  2018


IoT Hackathon Apps Coming Soon


Students, faculty and staff in Donald Bren Hall (DBH) will soon have access to apps stemming from the first IoT Hackathon held in the School of ICS. Last June’s event challenged students to develop apps that exploit data for a “smart” campus while preserving user privacy. Organized by UCI Postdoc fellow Roberto Yus, the focus on user privacy stems from the TIPPERS (Testbed for IoT-based Privacy-Preserving PERvasive Spaces) project, which is part of DARPA’s Brandeis program.
Two of the four Hackathon teams selected to advance completed their prototypes:

ZotBins is a waste-auditing app that monitors trash levels and helps users locate trash and recycling bins (developed by Joshua Cao, Derek Feng, Marshall Nguyen and Owen Yang).
CoffeeTime (previously the Schedule Optimizer Assistant) helps users find the quickest cup of coffee on campus (developed by Zhaofeng Li, Yathish Gangolli, Zihan Chen, Tianyi Yang and Junlin Wang).

Yus says that each team will receive the $2,000 cash prize, noting that both came up with useful apps. ZotBins aims to increase recycling, optimize work for janitors and help identify where more trash cans are needed. CoffeeTime can estimate your walk and wait times for three campus coffee shops and could eventually be extended to include restaurants.
Furthermore, Yus highlights the fact that the teams developed the apps with an emphasis on user privacy. “Apps often collect and store everything, but these two teams collect and process only the information they need, and then they discard it. They are very conscious of the privacy of their users.”
In addition to these two apps, students in the Information Systems Group (Sumaya Almanee, Sameera Ghayyur, Eun-Jeong Shin, Dhrubajyoti Ghosh, Rushabh Shah and Karthik Gajulapalli) developed four other prototypes:

Concierge is a smart assistant that can help you find people, rooms and events in DBH.
Noodle is a smart meeting organizer that lets you select cameras or microphones to record your meetings.
Self-Awareness tracks your DBH interactions so you know where you spend most of your time and with whom (it can even track how many flights of stairs you’ve climbed).
Building Analytics analyzes DBH occupancy by floor, region and room, which should help administrators identify peak hours of use.

The apps leverage information about the location of people in DBH from different sensors installed in the building, but Yus emphasizes that by default, the apps don’t share any of that data. “We’re focusing on privacy by design,” he says, so the user has to set up permissions to determine who can access the information.
All six apps are currently being tested by a group of 30-40 users. Yus hopes to launch the apps to everyone in DBH toward the end of the month, so stay tuned for more information. He also plans to host another IoT Hackathon this year, again focused on privacy in smart spaces. Participants will have access to privacy technologies developed in collaboration with Carnegie Mellon University, Duke University, the University of Massachusetts and others through the Brandeis program. More information will be available on the TIPPERS website in the following months.
—Shani Murray
ICS held its first IoT Hackathon in June 2017.

IoT Hackathon Apps Coming Soon
< Previous
 Alumni Spotlight: Vince Steckler '80 on Solving Problems, Giving Back, and Embracing Failure
            
Next >
 Tsudik Awarded Visiting Professorship at TU Dresden
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











