https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news






	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






		News    

I-SURF students presented progress on their summer research projects with SDCL

					Posted by Adriana Meza Soria on July 23, 2019 at 9:13 pm 				



SDCL lunch with I-SURF students

					Posted by Adriana Meza Soria on July 23, 2019 at 9:09 pm 				

As it has become a tradition in our lab, each summer, we enjoyed having lunch with our I-SURF fellows.


Design & Chatbots, SDCL lead researcher presenting for I-SURF 2019 summer program

					Posted by Adriana Meza Soria on July 23, 2019 at 9:03 pm 				



Exploring the unexplored in social software development platforms

					Posted by David Kutas on May 23, 2019 at 6:21 pm 				

On a sunny but slightly cool Friday in Irvine, lead researchers and their students gathered to present their current research pursuits, find common interests, and define future collaborations. We would like to express our gratitude to Debra Brodbeck (Assistant Director of ISR) and David Redmiles (ICS professor) for organizing and coordinating this workshop.


Lunch meeting with Consuelo Lopez

					Posted by David Kutas on March 4, 2019 at 4:25 pm 				

A former student of SDCL, Consuelo Lopez, visited us today from Buenos Aires, Argentina. Consuelo shared her previous experiences as a graduate student, and provided valuable feedback to all SDCL members on their research projects.


Philip Guo visits SDCL

					Posted by David Kutas on January 11, 2019 at 4:14 pm 				

Philip J. Guo, Assistant Professor of Cognitive Science UC San Diego visited SDCL. Adriana Meza Soria, Ph.D. student in SDCL, presented her research project, Knocap.


New SDCL members

					Posted by David Kutas on October 16, 2018 at 9:42 am 				
Professor Eduardo Santana de Almeida from Brazil is joining our lab for a year. Eduardo is an associate professor at Federal University of Bahia.  Learn more about him on his website: http://homes.dcc.ufba.br/~esa/ Eduardo in SDCL.


Congratulations to Thomas Kwak!

					Posted by andre on June 2, 2017 at 10:12 pm 				
Thomas successfully defended his master’s thesis on improving mining performance for Internet code search engines!


SDCL team in data science hackathon

					Posted by andre on May 17, 2016 at 1:00 pm 				
Thomas and Christian teamed up with undergraduate students Sreeja, Sid, and Chris to develop a tool that helps visualize mobility patterns of devices and apps on the city of New York. More about our project here: Tool wiki Tired happy faces after coding for 28 hours straight.


Congratulations to Arturo Di Lecce!

					Posted by andre on April 28, 2016 at 5:30 pm 				

Arturo recently defended and passed his MS thesis in crowd development!



Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





