https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/2






	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






		News    

Affinity diagram session!

					Posted by andre on March 15, 2016 at 9:01 pm 				
We have just categorized a few dozen sketches produced by a crowd of designers.


Lee was awarded the IBM fellowship

					Posted by andre on March 11, 2016 at 1:51 pm 				
Lee Martie (5th year Ph.D. student) was awarded the IBM fellowship. The IBM Ph.D. Fellowship Awards Program is an intensely competitive worldwide program, which honors exceptional Ph.D. students who have an interest in solving problems that are important to IBM and fundamental to innovation in many academic disciplines and areas of study (more information can […]


Congratulations Dr. Gerald!

					Posted by andre on March 6, 2016 at 2:58 pm 				
Gerald Bortis defended and passed his PhD Thesis dissertation titled “PorchLight: A Tag-based Approach to Bug Triaging”. The defense took place last Friday and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Crista Lopes and James Jones. Congratulations Dr. Gerald!


Congratulations, Sara!

					Posted by andre on March 2, 2016 at 12:03 pm 				
Sara Triplett defended and passed her MS Thesis today. The tile of her talk was “Design Workspaces: Preserving and Recovering Meaning in Groups of Sketches” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Marian Petre and James Jones. Congratulations Sara!


Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams (again!)

					Posted by andre on February 25, 2016 at 5:48 pm 				
We redecorated the conference room! We have just categorized around 250 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their second and latest experiment. It took 2h for a crowd of five people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work.


New Scholarship

					Posted by andre on January 20, 2016 at 5:44 pm 				
Congratulations to Consuelo López, who was recently granted the 2016 Miguel Velez scholarship.


Congratulations, Lee Martie!

					Posted by andre on January 20, 2016 at 5:43 pm 				
Lee Martie defended and passed his PhD Topic Proposal on Tuesday. The tile of his talk was “Supporting Iterative Internet-Scale Code Search” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Cristina Lopes and James Jones. Congratulations Lee!


SimSE

					Posted by andre on December 12, 2015 at 10:09 pm 				

A blast from the past. SimSE, developed by one of the very first graduate students of SDCL – Emily Navarro, continues to be popular. Check out some youtube videos of folks using it!


Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams

					Posted by andre on December 9, 2015 at 4:37 pm 				
We have just categorized around 500 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their latest experiment. It took 3h for a crowd of six people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work.


Welcome Thomas Kwak!

					Posted by andre on November 17, 2015 at 5:06 pm 				
Thomas Kwak is a new UCI Masters student who will be joining the code search team to do his Masters thesis!


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





