https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/3






	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






		News    

We wish Martin Medina well!

					Posted by andre on November 1, 2015 at 11:10 pm 				

We are glad to have had Martin and wish him well back home! Martin and Lee were still hard at work on Martin’s last day… they started to look a little weird though.


Welcome Gabriel!

					Posted by andre on June 15, 2015 at 10:58 am 				
Gabriel is an undergrad student who will be working on CrowdCode with Arturo, Fabio, and Thomas.


End of Quarter Lunch

					Posted by andre on June 15, 2015 at 10:13 am 				
All together to celebrate the end of a very busy quarter . Summer quarter is promising. Many projects going on and lab full of motivated people.


Congratulations Thomas!

					Posted by andre on June 9, 2015 at 5:46 pm 				
Thomas accepted a tenure-track position as a Assistant Professor at the George Mason University.


The SDCL in ICSE 2015

					Posted by andre on June 9, 2015 at 5:42 pm 				
Thomas presented two papers in ICSE [1][2] and co-organized the second International Workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSISE-2015) André presented a position paper [3] and was part of the panel titled “The Future of Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering”. [1] Borrowing from the crowd: A study of recombination in software design competitions, TD LaToza, M […]


Welcome Iago and Nathan!

					Posted by andre on June 9, 2015 at 5:20 pm 				
Iago Moreira and Nathan Martins are joining us for the Summer. Nathan has just finished his one year interchange program in North Dakota State University. Iago is half way through his program in Rochester Institute of Technology. They are both sponsored by the Brazilian Science without Borders program. .. and they are already working with […]


Welcome Edgar!

					Posted by andre on April 16, 2015 at 9:55 pm 				
Edgar is a new master student joining the lab. He is currently interested in investigating approaches to crowdsource software design.


Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference

					Posted by andre on March 28, 2015 at 4:40 pm 				
“Racial Violence Archive: Public Information System on Incidents of Violence during the Civil Rights Period” by Fernando Spanghero, Hosub Lee, Michael Bellato, Sowmya Jain,  Roeland Singer-heinze, Ya-Wen Lin, Sunakshi Gupta, and Geoff Ward. The faculty Sponsors were Alfred Kobsa and Geoff Ward. Here’s a teaser: http://owl.li/KPXjN


Paper accepted in MSR-2015!

					Posted by andre on March 19, 2015 at 10:43 pm 				
Congratulations Lee!! L. Martie and A. van der Hoek, “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”, Proceedings of the 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories.


Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams?

					Posted by andre on March 19, 2015 at 10:38 pm 				
We have just categorized 441 comments Lee Martie collected in his latest experiment with CodeExchange. It took 1h15min for a crowd of nine people to do the job!


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





