https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/4






	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






		News    

We won the Reddit Hackathon!

					Posted by andre on February 9, 2015 at 1:25 pm 				
The competition happened on Jan 10th and is part of a new data science initiative aimed at coordinating UCI scientists who are working on various aspects of data science. Our team was composed by Christian Adriano (SDCL), Vijay Palepu (Spider Lab), and Rianne Conijn (visitor Master student).


Welcome Fernando

					Posted by andre on February 6, 2015 at 11:10 am 				
Welcome Fernando! Fernando Spanghero is a new master student joining our research group. His interested in software design, more specifically in developing sketching tools.


Welcome Martín

					Posted by andre on February 6, 2015 at 10:57 am 				
Welcome Martín! Martín Medina is a new master student joining our research group. He has work experience in software development and he will be working with Lee Martie in CodeExchange project.


Congrats Dr. Nick Lopez

					Posted by andre on December 5, 2014 at 1:48 pm 				

Congrats are in order to Nick Lopez, who just finished defending his Ph.D. dissertation on the impact of non-determinism of LDA in software engineering! Afterwards, there was a post-defense celebratory lunch!


Nick dissertation award!

					Posted by andre on November 20, 2014 at 9:04 pm 				

Nick Mangano receives his ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Dissertation Award at FSE 2014 in Hong Kong, and is supported by Lee and Thomas who are both there as well to present at the Context workshop.


Welcome Consuelo

					Posted by andre on October 8, 2014 at 10:02 am 				
Welcome Consuelo! Consuelo Lopez is a new master student joining our research group. She has work experience in software quality and she is currently interested in developing tools for software design.


Welcome Arturo and Fabio

					Posted by andre on September 15, 2014 at 6:27 pm 				
Welcome Arturo Di Lecce and Fabio Ricci! Arturo and Fabio join us from Politecnico di Milano in Italy, where they are currently masters students. They’ll be visiting SDCL in sunny California for the next year and will be working on projects related to crowd programming and crowd design.


Thesis Defense Congratulations

					Posted by andre on August 22, 2014 at 12:26 pm 				
Micky and Lucy have graduated cum laude with their M.S. degrees from the University of Amsterdam. The research they performed in SDCL uncovered interesting aspects of crowdsourcing software design. We are hard at work on a paper summarizing their findings.


CodeExchange – A new Java code search engine

					Posted by andre on August 12, 2014 at 11:58 am 				
Program Java? Checkout CodeExchange, our new code search engine.


Crowd Programming featured on ACM TechNews

					Posted by andre on July 30, 2014 at 10:21 pm 				
Our work on Crowd Programming was also featured on ACM TechNews and Techwire.net.


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





