https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/5






	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






		News    

Press on Crowd Programming Grant

					Posted by andre on July 24, 2014 at 11:46 am 				
Our work on crowd programming has been briefly featured in both the UC Irinve News and in Campus Technology.


Welcome Gleiph

					Posted by andre on July 13, 2014 at 7:40 pm 				
We have a new member in SDCL – Gleiph Ghiotto. Gleiph is a 3rd year PhD student from Fluminense Federal University. His advisor is professor Leonardo Murta. Gleiph will spend six months in our lab investigating merging and diffing approaches in open source repositories.


Congratulations to the UC Irvine Design Competition Winners!

					Posted by andre on July 7, 2014 at 10:45 pm 				
Congratulations to Ulyana Skladchikova and Matias Giorgio, two of the winners in the UC Irvine Software Design Competition. Participants first produced a design – describing either a system’s architecture and design or its user experience – and were then given some of the designs produced by others, producing a second revised design incorporating insights they […]


Grant on Crowd Programming

					Posted by andre on June 13, 2014 at 5:09 pm 				
We’re very happy to announce that the National Science Foundation has awarded SDCL a $1.4M grant to investigate the application of microtask crowdsourcing to programming. More details in the official NSF announcement.


Welcome Danilo and William

					Posted by andre on June 13, 2014 at 4:29 pm 				
We have two new members in SDCL for the summer: Danilo is B.Sc. Student majoring in Computer Engineering at the Federal University of Sao Carlos, Brazil. He is a former exchange student at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign during Fall 2013 and Spring 2014. He will work with Christian on how to apply crowd […]


Meet the SDCL Beowulf Cluster

					Posted by andre on May 18, 2014 at 4:35 pm 				

We needed to do some serious data mining on a budget, so we built a 45 Raspberry Pi Beowulf cluster. It’s working great and is a welcomed member of the lab :).


SCALE meeting at UC Irvine

					Posted by andre on May 16, 2014 at 2:50 pm 				

UC Irvine hosted a meeting of the SCALE research group. SDCL had posters on several research projects. Lots of great discussion!


Won 2nd Place in 2014 Annual Autism Appjam

					Posted by andre on April 29, 2014 at 5:56 am 				

Mengyao’s team (group with Kate Ringland, Oliver Haimson, Nathan Major and Kalyda Tokhi), DanceCraft, won 2nd place and the Social Media Award in the 2014 annual autism appjam. Check more information about the project here: http://dancecraftforautism.wordpress.com/


Visitors from The Netherlands

					Posted by andre on April 8, 2014 at 12:00 pm 				
Luxi and Micky are master students from the University of Amsterdam. They will spend four months with us researching how to crowdsource software design activities. Welcome!


Tablet tower to server tower

					Posted by andre on April 1, 2014 at 3:50 pm 				

What do you do when you need to do a lot of parallel data processing but cloud services are just too expensive? Turn your lab’s tablets into servers, of course!


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





