https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/6






	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






		News    

Marian Petre visit

					Posted by andre on March 30, 2014 at 3:07 pm 				
Our long-term collaborator Marian Petre from The Open University visited us last week. Her insights are always much appreciated and we already look forward to her next visit!


Welcome Mengyao and John

					Posted by andre on February 3, 2014 at 11:36 am 				
Mengyao is a first year Ph.D. student in Informatics. She is interested in doing research in design practice, more specifically the creative nature of it. John is a first year M.S. student in Computer Science. He is interested in doing research in software architecture, particularly the field of software as a service (SaaS). Welcome!


New Scholarships

					Posted by andre on February 3, 2014 at 10:55 am 				
Congratulations to Nick Lopez and Christian Adriano, who were recently granted the 2014 Miguel Velez scholarship.


New workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering

					Posted by andre on December 8, 2013 at 5:27 pm 				
Thomas is co-organizing a new workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSI-SE), in conjunction with ICSE 2014. The workshop will be a one day event with invited talks, a poster and demos session, and a crowd-based working session giving participants the opportunity to explore the application of crowdsourcing to software engineering and begin to forge […]


Paper on Calico to appear at CHI 2014!

					Posted by andre on December 8, 2013 at 5:21 pm 				
Our paper, Supporting Informal Design with Interactive Whiteboards, was accepted for inclusion at CHI 2014! Hope to see you in Toronto!


2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists

					Posted by andre on November 20, 2013 at 1:47 pm 				
André was recognized as one of the 2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists. A big congratulations to André! ACM announcement


Article published in Empirical Software Engineering Journal

					Posted by andre on October 1, 2013 at 11:20 am 				
Looking to evaluate a software engineering tool in a study with developers? Check out our new ESE journal article for options, standard practices, and tradeoffs, grounded in a literature review of over 1700 software engineering papers. article


Welcome Namrata!

					Posted by andre on September 29, 2013 at 9:44 pm 				
We are very excited to welcome Namrata Puri to the laboratory. She is joining us as a new M.S. student and will be working on the UI of CodeExchange.


Congrats Dr. Nick!

					Posted by andre on September 18, 2013 at 5:49 pm 				
Congratulations to Nick Mangano, who successfully defended his Ph.D. dissertation entitled ‘Calico: an early-phase software design tool’ on September 18, with a committee of Gary Olson, David Redmiles, and Marian Petre (in addition to his advisor, of course). After 6 years of very hard work, Nick is now off to make a commercial version of […]


CrowdCode at CrowdConf

					Posted by andre on September 11, 2013 at 9:23 pm 				
Our abstract, CrowdCode: A platform for crowd development, was selected for both a poster and a talk at CrowdConf! Hope to see you in San Francisco.


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





