https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/7






	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






		News    

ISR Research Forum

					Posted by andre on May 30, 2013 at 9:21 pm 				
SDCL is excited to welcome visitors to our lab for the ISR Research Forum. We have demos lined up of several of our research projects and are looking forward to exchanging ideas with both fellow researchers and developers from industry. If you’re in Irvine, we hope to see you there!


Lionel Briand visit

					Posted by andre on May 17, 2013 at 10:12 am 				
Lionel Briand visited the SDCL as part of his visit as an ISR Distinguished Speaker. Once more, we had great interactions and discussions about our research.


Jane Cleland-Huang visit

					Posted by andre on April 19, 2013 at 6:31 am 				
Another ISR Distinguished Speaker, another visitor to the SDCL. Jane Cleland-Huang from DePaul University visited our lab. She provided some great feedback on our research!


Arie van Deursen visit

					Posted by andre on March 14, 2013 at 11:31 am 				
We had a great time hosting Arie van Deursen from TU Delft in the Netherlands. We had a long demo session during which we provided us with some great feedback, and he gave a great talk as part of the ISR Distinguished Speaker series.


SDCL ICSE Papers

					Posted by andre on February 28, 2013 at 9:45 pm 				
SDCL will be presenting the following papers at ICSE 2013: Research track PorchLight: A Tag-Based Approach to Bug Triaging Gerald Bortis and Andre van der Hoek Education track Enabling a Classroom Design Studio with a Collaborative Sketch Design Tool Dastyni Loksa, Nicolas Mangano, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek MISE Workshop Light-weight Analysis of […]


Michele thanks

					Posted by andre on December 25, 2012 at 10:43 am 				
Michele Bonazza is now back in Italy to complete his Ph.D. program there. Time has gone very fast and we have had a great time. Look toward CaliSmall, a standalone adaptation of Calico for Android tablets, to hopefully appear in the Google Play store soon…


Marian Petre visit

					Posted by andre on December 12, 2012 at 10:35 am 				
Our long-term collaborator Marian Petre from The Open University visited us for this week, working on finalizing a book to be published out of the SPSD 2010 workshop (it is almost done!), and providing us with feedback on Nick Mangano’s work on analyzing sketches on whiteboards. Her insights are always much appreciated and we already […]


PorchLight ICSE paper!

					Posted by andre on December 4, 2012 at 10:37 am 				
Congrats to Gerald Bortis for the ICSE acceptance of his paper on PorchLight!


Affinity diagramming

					Posted by andre on November 18, 2012 at 2:53 pm 				
We had a lot of fun grouping the results of Evelina’s and Thomas’ interviews. Nick Mangano suggested an indexation. Nick Lopez came up with many labels (topics?) to one note. Michele complained about so much meta-data. Lee suggested a group for the “unrelated”. Since the sticky notes moved all over the walls, the outcome looks promising. More […]


Welcome Sergio!

					Posted by andre on October 20, 2012 at 7:10 am 				
Our group continues to grow! We are very excited to welcome Sergio Villaverde Herrera to the laboratory. He is joining us for the year as an education abroad student from the University of Granada, Spain, and is exploring building a scalable server side to Calico (scalable to many many users).


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





