https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/8






	News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






		News    

Groupwork on tablets

					Posted by andre on October 18, 2012 at 9:33 pm 				
Michele – looking amused at the funny cat pictures we found while restoring some images from the tablets (sometimes, servers crash and important work is almost lost…).


SDCL has moved

					Posted by andre on September 11, 2012 at 5:43 pm 				
The SDCL has moved! Our new space is in ICS1, room 414 (see our directions page). Come visit us in our new space for a tour (and demos, as always!).


Welcome Michele!

					Posted by andre on September 11, 2012 at 2:54 pm 				
We are very excited to welcome Michele Bonazza to the laboratory. He is joining us for four months as a visitor from the University of Padova, Italy, and will be developing an Android version of Calico (!)


Welcome Christian!

					Posted by andre on September 11, 2012 at 2:53 pm 				
We are very excited to welcome Christian Adriano to the laboratory. He is joining us as a new Ph.D. student from Sao Paolo, Brazil.


ISR Research Forum

					Posted by andre on May 18, 2012 at 3:32 pm 				
The SDCL was an active participant in the ISR Research Forum, with numerous demos given during the open house and lots of good connections being made. All in all a fun day, especially with the great feedback we received on our projects.


Brazilian collaborators visit

					Posted by andre on April 16, 2012 at 8:40 pm 				
SDCL friends Claudia Werner, Leo Murta, and Marcelo Schots visit us from UFRJ in Rio and UFF in Niteroi this week, exchanging research ideas, exploring collaborations, and working on a joint paper.


Welcome Alfredo Motta

					Posted by andre on April 2, 2012 at 8:48 pm 				
We welcome Alfredo Motta to our lab; Alfredo is visiting us for four months from Politecnico di Milano, and is exploring how designers can be assisted with feedback about their designs in progress.


Papers accepted

					Posted by andre on March 31, 2012 at 10:00 pm 				
Congrats to Lee Martie for getting a paper accepted in the MSR 2012 Challenge track, and Nick Mangano for getting a paper accepted in JASE [link]. Well done!


Marian Petre visit

					Posted by andre on March 31, 2012 at 10:11 am 				
Marian Petre from The Open University visited us for this week, working on a book to be published out of the SPSD 2010 workshop and generally giving us feedback on all of our projects.


Welcome Thomas LaToza

					Posted by andre on March 7, 2012 at 8:54 pm 				
We are very excited to welcome Thomas LaToza to the laboratory. He will be joining us this Fall from CMU, where he just completed his Ph.D. (congrats!).


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





