http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/opportunities






	Opportunities – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






Opportunities

We always have a range of opportunities to become involved in our laboratory and projects. We welcome visitors as well as collaborations with other institutions, and are happy to talk to anyone about how they can contribute. We particularly have a long history of working with M.S. and B.S. students, many of whom have made critical contributions to our projects.
The following represents some of the ideas we plan to pursue in the near future. Please feel free to contact us, whether pertaining to these ideas or a new project or idea that you have in mind.
Chatbots

Help run an experiment and perform data analysis of results for Sayme, a chatbot that assists developers in coordinating their programming work.
Design a voice-based interface to an electronic whiteboard sketching tool.
Research existing technologies for sketch recognition and implement a prototype as the basis for a design chatbot.
Develop a machine learning approach to distinguish good versus not good bug reports being submitted to GitHub.
Design and develop a chatbot that helps students learn a new API by presenting increasingly sophisticated examples mined from GitHub.

KnoCap

Develop multi-modal tools to collect important design bits from conversations through lightweight interactions (e.g., tactile buttons and short voice commands).
Develop voice-based interfaces to remind designers about past design conversations. (e.g., Alexa, Google Home, and Cortana skills).
Develop sketching tools that integrate lightweight visualizations of important design bits.
Conduct qualitative analysis of design meetings to classify information that developers need.
Augment electronic whiteboard software sketching tool with novel features such as lasso, copy-paste, scraps, collaborative sketching, etc.









 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In






