http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/papers/technical-reports






	Technical reports – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory






Technical reports

2008

A. Sarma, J. Herbsleb, and A. van der Hoek, Challenges in Measuring, Understanding, and Achieving Social-Technical Congruence, Technical Report CMU-ISR-08-106, Carnegie Mellon University, Institute for Software Research International, Pittsburg, 2008.

 
2006

A. Baker and A. van der Hoek, Examining Software Design from a General Design Perspective, Technical Report UCI-ISR-06-15, Institute for Software Research, University of California, Irvine, 2006.
A. Baker and A. van der Hoek, Framing Software Design with the Design Diamond, Technical Report UCI-ISR-06-11, Institute for Software Research, University of California, Irvine, 2006.
A. Baker and A. van der Hoek, Reframing Software Design: Perspectives on Advancing an Elusive Discipline, Technical Report UCI-ISR-06-10, Institute for Software Research, University of California, Irvine, 2006.
R. Ripley, A. Sarma, and A. van der Hoek, Using Visualizations to Analyze Workspace Activity and Discern Software Project Evolution, Technical Report UCI-ISR-06-01, Institute for Software Research, University of California, Irvine, 2006.

 
2002

C. Lüer and A. van der Hoek, Composition Environments for Deployable Software Components, Technical Report UCI-ICS-02-18, Department of Information and Computer Science, University of California, Irvine, 2002.









 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In






