https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/author/andre






	andre – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory





Author Archive

Congratulations to Thomas Kwak!

June 2, 2017
Thomas successfully defended his master’s thesis on improving mining performance for Internet code search engines!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Congratulations to Thomas Kwak!


Volunteering at ICSE 2016

May 22, 2016
Consuelo* with other ICSE volunteers. Mission accomplished! * standing third from left to right.

 Posted in conference |   Comments Off on Volunteering at ICSE 2016


Consuelo’s ICSE-2016 presentation

May 17, 2016
Consuelo presenting our research* on Crowd Design in ICSE crowdsourcing workshop (CSI-SE-2016).   * Toward Microtask Crowdsourcing Software Design Work Authors: Edgar R.Q. Weidema, Consuelo López, Sahand Nayebaziz, Fernando Spanghero and André van der Hoek  Photograph taken by Thomas La Toza (thanks!)

 Posted in conference, Travel |   Comments Off on Consuelo’s ICSE-2016 presentation


SDCL team in data science hackathon

May 17, 2016
Thomas and Christian teamed up with undergraduate students Sreeja, Sid, and Chris to develop a tool that helps visualize mobility patterns of devices and apps on the city of New York. More about our project here: Tool wiki Tired happy faces after coding for 28 hours straight.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on SDCL team in data science hackathon


Congratulations to Arturo Di Lecce!

April 28, 2016
Arturo recently defended and passed his MS thesis in crowd development!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Congratulations to Arturo Di Lecce!


Affinity diagram session!

March 15, 2016
We have just categorized a few dozen sketches produced by a crowd of designers.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Affinity diagram session!


Lee was awarded the IBM fellowship

March 11, 2016
Lee Martie (5th year Ph.D. student) was awarded the IBM fellowship. The IBM Ph.D. Fellowship Awards Program is an intensely competitive worldwide program, which honors exceptional Ph.D. students who have an interest in solving problems that are important to IBM and fundamental to innovation in many academic disciplines and areas of study (more information can […]

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Lee was awarded the IBM fellowship


Congratulations Dr. Gerald!

March 6, 2016
Gerald Bortis defended and passed his PhD Thesis dissertation titled “PorchLight: A Tag-based Approach to Bug Triaging”. The defense took place last Friday and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Crista Lopes and James Jones. Congratulations Dr. Gerald!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Congratulations Dr. Gerald!


Congratulations, Sara!

March 2, 2016
Sara Triplett defended and passed her MS Thesis today. The tile of her talk was “Design Workspaces: Preserving and Recovering Meaning in Groups of Sketches” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Marian Petre and James Jones. Congratulations Sara!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Congratulations, Sara!


Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams (again!)

February 25, 2016
We redecorated the conference room! We have just categorized around 250 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their second and latest experiment. It took 2h for a crowd of five people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams (again!)



Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





