https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/author/andre/page/2






	andre – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory





Author Archive

New Scholarship

January 20, 2016
Congratulations to Consuelo López, who was recently granted the 2016 Miguel Velez scholarship.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on New Scholarship


Congratulations, Lee Martie!

January 20, 2016
Lee Martie defended and passed his PhD Topic Proposal on Tuesday. The tile of his talk was “Supporting Iterative Internet-Scale Code Search” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Cristina Lopes and James Jones. Congratulations Lee!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Congratulations, Lee Martie!


SimSE

December 12, 2015
A blast from the past. SimSE, developed by one of the very first graduate students of SDCL – Emily Navarro, continues to be popular. Check out some youtube videos of folks using it!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on SimSE


Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams

December 9, 2015
We have just categorized around 500 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their latest experiment. It took 3h for a crowd of six people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams


Welcome Thomas Kwak!

November 17, 2015
Thomas Kwak is a new UCI Masters student who will be joining the code search team to do his Masters thesis!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Thomas Kwak!


SDCL at ASE 2015!

November 15, 2015
Lee Martie at ASE 2015 presenting “CodeExchange: Supporting Reformulation of Internet-Scale Code Queries in Context”. This was joint work between Lee Martie, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek.

 Posted in conference, Travel |   Comments Off on SDCL at ASE 2015!


We wish Martin Medina well!

November 1, 2015
We are glad to have had Martin and wish him well back home! Martin and Lee were still hard at work on Martin’s last day… they started to look a little weird though.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on We wish Martin Medina well!


Welcome Gabriel!

June 15, 2015
Gabriel is an undergrad student who will be working on CrowdCode with Arturo, Fabio, and Thomas.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Gabriel!


End of Quarter Lunch

June 15, 2015
All together to celebrate the end of a very busy quarter . Summer quarter is promising. Many projects going on and lab full of motivated people.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on End of Quarter Lunch


Congratulations Thomas!

June 9, 2015
Thomas accepted a tenure-track position as a Assistant Professor at the George Mason University.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Congratulations Thomas!


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





