https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/author/andre/page/3






	andre – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory





Author Archive

The SDCL in ICSE 2015

June 9, 2015
Thomas presented two papers in ICSE [1][2] and co-organized the second International Workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSISE-2015) André presented a position paper [3] and was part of the panel titled “The Future of Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering”. [1] Borrowing from the crowd: A study of recombination in software design competitions, TD LaToza, M […]

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on The SDCL in ICSE 2015


Welcome Iago and Nathan!

June 9, 2015
Iago Moreira and Nathan Martins are joining us for the Summer. Nathan has just finished his one year interchange program in North Dakota State University. Iago is half way through his program in Rochester Institute of Technology. They are both sponsored by the Brazilian Science without Borders program. .. and they are already working with […]

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Iago and Nathan!


Lee’s MSR 2015 talk

May 16, 2015
Lee has just presented his paper “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”.

 Posted in conference |   Comments Off on Lee’s MSR 2015 talk


Welcome Edgar!

April 16, 2015
Edgar is a new master student joining the lab. He is currently interested in investigating approaches to crowdsource software design.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Edgar!


Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference

March 28, 2015
“Racial Violence Archive: Public Information System on Incidents of Violence during the Civil Rights Period” by Fernando Spanghero, Hosub Lee, Michael Bellato, Sowmya Jain,  Roeland Singer-heinze, Ya-Wen Lin, Sunakshi Gupta, and Geoff Ward. The faculty Sponsors were Alfred Kobsa and Geoff Ward. Here’s a teaser: http://owl.li/KPXjN

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference


Paper accepted in MSR-2015!

March 19, 2015
Congratulations Lee!! L. Martie and A. van der Hoek, “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”, Proceedings of the 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Paper accepted in MSR-2015!


Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams?

March 19, 2015
We have just categorized 441 comments Lee Martie collected in his latest experiment with CodeExchange. It took 1h15min for a crowd of nine people to do the job!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams?


We won the Reddit Hackathon!

February 9, 2015
The competition happened on Jan 10th and is part of a new data science initiative aimed at coordinating UCI scientists who are working on various aspects of data science. Our team was composed by Christian Adriano (SDCL), Vijay Palepu (Spider Lab), and Rianne Conijn (visitor Master student).

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on We won the Reddit Hackathon!


Welcome Fernando

February 6, 2015
Welcome Fernando! Fernando Spanghero is a new master student joining our research group. His interested in software design, more specifically in developing sketching tools.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Fernando


Welcome Martín

February 6, 2015
Welcome Martín! Martín Medina is a new master student joining our research group. He has work experience in software development and he will be working with Lee Martie in CodeExchange project.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Martín


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





