https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/author/andre/page/4






	andre – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory





Author Archive

Congrats Dr. Nick Lopez

December 5, 2014
Congrats are in order to Nick Lopez, who just finished defending his Ph.D. dissertation on the impact of non-determinism of LDA in software engineering! Afterwards, there was a post-defense celebratory lunch!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Congrats Dr. Nick Lopez


Nick dissertation award!

November 20, 2014
Nick Mangano receives his ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Dissertation Award at FSE 2014 in Hong Kong, and is supported by Lee and Thomas who are both there as well to present at the Context workshop.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Nick dissertation award!


PLATEAU 2014

October 25, 2014
Thomas visited rainy Portland to co-chair the Fifth Workshop on the Evaluation and Usability of Programming Languages and Tools at SPLASH 2014. There were many great talks on topics ranging from making programming more social through newsfeeds to an analysis of how race detection tools benefit developers. Josh Bloch, designer of the Java collections framework […]

 Posted in Uncategorized |   Comments Off on PLATEAU 2014


UIST 2014

October 8, 2014
Thomas attended UIST 2014 in Honolulu, presenting his paper on Microtask programming: building software with a crowd. There were a number of interesting papers related to programming tools and crowdsourcing. SDCL also had an entry in the UIST 2014 Analog Fabrication Sandcastle Competition.

 Posted in Travel |   Comments Off on UIST 2014


Welcome Consuelo

October 8, 2014
Welcome Consuelo! Consuelo Lopez is a new master student joining our research group. She has work experience in software quality and she is currently interested in developing tools for software design.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Consuelo


Welcome Arturo and Fabio

September 15, 2014
Welcome Arturo Di Lecce and Fabio Ricci! Arturo and Fabio join us from Politecnico di Milano in Italy, where they are currently masters students. They’ll be visiting SDCL in sunny California for the next year and will be working on projects related to crowd programming and crowd design.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Arturo and Fabio


Thesis Defense Congratulations

August 22, 2014
Micky and Lucy have graduated cum laude with their M.S. degrees from the University of Amsterdam. The research they performed in SDCL uncovered interesting aspects of crowdsourcing software design. We are hard at work on a paper summarizing their findings.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Thesis Defense Congratulations


CodeExchange – A new Java code search engine

August 12, 2014
Program Java? Checkout CodeExchange, our new code search engine.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on CodeExchange – A new Java code search engine


Crowd Programming featured on ACM TechNews

July 30, 2014
Our work on Crowd Programming was also featured on ACM TechNews and Techwire.net.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Crowd Programming featured on ACM TechNews


Press on Crowd Programming Grant

July 24, 2014
Our work on crowd programming has been briefly featured in both the UC Irinve News and in Campus Technology.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Press on Crowd Programming Grant


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





