http://www.ics.uci.edu/~feldman/LEC04.doc2.htm




lec04


ICS 131--Win 2000--LEC 04--Productivity
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.  Review of Lec02--State of Computing
	Webcentric View of World
		a.  Hardware-Software Chain from 
			enduser devices to service providers
		b.  Players--
			Who are they?
			Advantages and disadvantages to each group
			Breaking news--How to respond to
				pricing errors by goods providers?
 
2.  Productivity in Computing--a bit of history--Pattern?
	A.  One-on-One--It's 1956, 
		Feldman using the IBM 650 at Carnegie Tech
		Cards in, cards out, no disc, no tape, Software minimal
		Nice for users, not best use of machine
	B.  Operators, operating systems, multi-programming
		To increase machine utilization (productivity)
		users submitted jobs to an operator who ran the jobs 
		Later on, primitive operating systems for running job
		Then multi-programming--running several jobs at once
	C.  Time-sharing
		Feldman at UCI starting in 1965
		Devices, Model 33 TTY, early alphnumeric displays
		Flakey operating systems, but better for users
	D.  Back to one-on-one
		Personal computers
		Why the PC revolution?  System overload, let users in.
		Lot's of "waste".  Loss of control by organization.
		Hook PC's up to servers.
	E.  The Web
		"Ultimate" in providing access to users.
		Lots of control possibilities, too.
		Sharing SW, Sharing resources
	F.  Next Step???
 
3.  Productivity in Organizations
	Has the substantial investment in computing technology
	reduced the cost of providing goods and services?
	Anecdotal evidence v overall numbers
	The conventional wisdom has been that the substantial
	investment in computing technology has NOT reduced
	the cost of providing goods and services
	A.  Why not?
		•High cost of computing
		•Adoption takes a long time 
		•Reaping benefits takes a long time
			learning curve
		•Measurement problems
			e.g., role of credit cards,
			quality improvement
		•Shift business from one vendor to another
			without improving productivity for industry
		•Takes more than computing system to
			increase sales and reduce costs
 
4.  Unconventional Wisdom--Productivity is increasing
	Sources:  	BusinessWeek, 29 Nov 99
			LA Times, 13 Nov 99
	On 12 Nov 99, "the BLS released 
	an upward revision of the productivity data, 
	counting software production for the first time as output 
	and making other upgrades."
	in fact the data were revised back to 1970
	what looked like slow productivity growth in 70's and early 80's
	was apparently a temporary phenomenon
	the revised look at productivity shows improvements beginning in
	early 80's and current level of productivity improvements is
	comparable to that of 60's
	Still problems in picking up productivity in some industries.
	Some industries still lagging behind.
	Impact on economy
	How long will  productivity boom continue?
	BW Table
Productivity:  Who's Gaining -- and Who Isn't
The Stars--Computer and semiconductor industries have been the biggest contributors to measured productivity growth in the 1990's, with gains in excess of 25% annually. .....
The Cost-Cutters--May companies have become much more  efficient without fundamentally changing what they make.  Industries with more than 4% annual productivity growth in the 1990's include tires, textiles, household appliances, and aircraft.
The Innovators--Widely used innovations such as wireless telephones, internet browsers, improved drug treatments for depression, and automated teller machines may not be correctly counted in the economic statistics for years.
The Unmeasured--In sectors such as health care, education, government, and much of financial services, economists disagree what the proper measure of productivity is, much less how to calculate it.
The Laggards--Many industries have low or even negative productivity gains.  For example, productivity in food stores fell at an average rate of 0.9% from 1989 to 1997 (the last year available).  Other industries showing less than 2% annual gains in the 1990's include hotels and motels, restaurants, car dealers, auto repair shops, and furniture manufacturers.
Source:  Business Week, 29 Nov 99, p 42
 
 
 
Logistics
	Sexual Harassment brochure
	project topics
	deliverable schedule
	quiz next Monday
	section assignments
	Lunch program
	Career fair
	Library briefing
	Adds-drops

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

