http://www.ics.uci.edu/~feldman/lec19F00.html




lec19F00.doc


Lecture 19--ICS 131 F00--30 Nov 00

18-On-line University
	Distance learning on internet v other forms of DL?
	Role of elite schools?
	Can you get faculty members to provide course material?
	Audiences other than college students?
	"The best is the enemy of the good"
	Role of J Derrida in this article?
17-People stories
	Why are dot-com people unhappy?
	Impact of economic problems of dot-coms
	Why are women not equally represented in IT?
	What can ICS do to recruit and retain more women students?
 
16-How can Hi-Tech change things?
	Web publishing advantages, problems
	Why has Stephen King halted his web publishing effort?
	How can classroom be impacted?  data base, feedback, wireless
	How can consumers use wireless, handheld devices?
15--Computer Health and Safety
	OSHA rules--four points
	Arguments against OSHA rules--current progress, cost
	Feldman's ABC's
	Computer health and safety program for UCI students?
		what should students do?
		what should UCI do?
	Which university web site on H&S did JF recommend?
14--Computers and elections
	Are hi-tech systems for counting ballots 
		more accurate than hand counting?
	Which ballot system is best?
	Role of computers in redistricting?
	Role of computer in campaign?
	In the light of post election information,
		is it possible that exit polls in Florida were right?
	Letter to editor--support or criticize
 
13-Telecommuting
	Why is interest in conventional telecommuting declining?
	Why is interest in the remote work place form 
		of telecommuting gaining?
	Brown and Duguid and telecommuting
	Distance learning and telecommuting
12-Software safety
	One single factor, cause?
	Four contributing factors in Therac-25 case
		didn't follow up on first incidents
		removal of hardware interlocks
		poor software engineering
		unrealistic risk assessment
	What can government do?
	What can schools do?
11-Computers and health care
	Why important?  life critical, big business
	What could be done?
	What is hampering effort?
10--Who's not on-line?
	What percentage of US adults are on-line?
	A significant percentage of those not on-line 
		don't want to be on-line.  Why? 
		dangerous, expensive, confusing, not missing anything
	Impact of age, gender, race, ethnicity, income, rural-urban
	Digital divide
9-  How do organizations cope with major changes in technology?
	What keeps companies from adopting new technologies?
		can't do both and keep profits up
		threat to people working on core business
		cost of developing new technology
	What's the BW recommended solution?
	Other possibilities?  Microsoft solution
 
8--Electronic commerce--retail
	Future of e-tailing
	The bricks and clicks model
	British grocer success
	Multiple channel approaches, e.g., Eddie Bauer
	What if a web site has an erroneous price?
	What	is responsibility of internet auction company
		with respect to authenticity of merchandise?
	What is Land's End trying to do to overcome
		inability to try on clothes?
7--Security
	•poor security allows hackers to get personal info off web sites
	•FTC proposed legislation: web sites should provide consumers with 		notice, choice, access, security
	•augmented browsers--good for consumers?
	•distributed computing projects
	•ICANN--Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
		could you have voted in election of public members
6-Comparisons
	Productivity--productivity gains are widespread geographically,
		productivity gains are dominated by gains in IT industry.	
		Are these conclusions consistent?  Looking at different things.
	Two views of G4 Cube--
		Beautiful, ran all sw I tried
		no floppy, no CD-RW, small hard disc
 
5-Education
	•a day in the life of a wired school
		using info from web to write a report
		scanning photos
		weather satellite data
	•counter movement--moratorium on computers in schools
		until more research on impact
	Brown and Duguid
		•computers and web are not going 
		to eliminate the world as we know it
		•best solution is to use them to augment
		and improve what we have
		•pressures for change in higher education
		•but new model not there and doubt it will ever be there
		•old model, advantages of, functions of
		•possible improvements
4-How is Web used--beyond e-mail!
	•finding information, e-commerce, government programs, education
 
	•Amazon's discriminatory pricing, digital signature, 
		Disney changing policy on children's access
	•Can IT trigger downturn in economy?
	•Too much hype?
3--History of computing--according to JF
	•stand alone, operators/operating systems, multiprogramming,
	time-sharing, networks, pc's/workstations, web, appliances
	•driving forces--hardware efficiency, people efficiency,
	real-time response requirement, bottleneck model, 	hardware/software developments, military requirements
2-E-mail, ethics and etiquette
	how does it differ from other forms of communication?
	be careful what you put into e-mail
	be careful how you react to e-mail
	big brother--echelon, carnivore, following e-mail
 

