http://www.ics.uci.edu/~feldman/lec16F00.html





lec16F00.doc



Lecture Sixteen--ICS 131
F00--16 Nov 2000
Review of Lecture Fifteen
OSHA rules made the Federal Register
put somebody in charge
training
fix the problem
pay medical costs and part-time compensation

Computer Health and Safety
Really important
Things you can do to prevent problems, alleviate problems
Responsibility of organization
         Children are a special
problem
 
Final question: prepare a computer health
and safety program for UCI students
what should the students do?
what should UCI do?

Lecture Sixteen--How can Hi-Tech change things?
Three examples
1. Web publishing--Hoping web success strikes twice, NY Times,
11 Nov
•Denis Dutton
•New Zealand, University of Canterbury, Christchurch
•Arts & Letters Daily
•Cybereditions
out-of-print books
not economic for traditional publishers
$12.95 to download
print on demand
•Connections--Small world
Jaques Derrida, essay on
Fred Crews
UCSB
  

2. Blackboard: new uses for technology
A. Source material for a course on Lizzie Borden
•Pretty regular course format
•Unique course material
•Primary source material
B. Classtalk
•Millionaire devices
•wired, wireless
•student feedback
•Doug Engelbart's version
C. Wireless internet access
•college campus

3. Shopping in Palm of the Hand
Wireless shopping with handhelds
Pretty crude right now
Example: compare prices
m-commerce
Example: find things


4. Morals
Customizing, small amounts, single copies, cut distribution costs
compare to traditional publisher
Make information available in classroom, outside of classroom
more information
easier access
Bring information down to execution point
 


Logistics
1. Presentations on Wednesday
2. Quiz 5
Lecture 17--Computer people
WSJ, 15 Nov 00, B1 +
Bounds, Wendy and Silverman, Rachel Emma
The Really Early Midlife Crisis
What price glory? personal tales of the dot-com trenches
3. Final lecture--two weeks from today
4. More on computers and elections--cpsr.org
e-mail, website
5. Quiz 4 grades
6. More on computers and health
Stolberg, Sheryl Gay and Gerth, Jeff.
High-tech stealth being used to sway doctor prescriptions
NY Times, 16 Nov 00, A1, A20
Freudenheim, Milt. Big companies lead effort to reduce
medical errors, NY Times, 16 Nov 00, C19
 


Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility
(CPSR), a public
interest organization that focuses on the benefits
and risks to society of computer technology, offers the following answers
to frequently asked questions about computer-based voting technology.
Q: Why do vote counting systems produce different
totals when the ballots are recounted? Shouldn't machine counts and recounts
of ballots produce repeatable, reliable results?
A: Many people have wondered why a computerized
vote-counting system
would have any significant inaccuracies. Some
have publicly speculated that such variation must be the result of deliberate
human action. Some people believe that computerized counts will always
be more accurate than human counts, because of inevitable "human error."
However, computerized vote-counting systems
are complex, prone to
several kinds of error. Well-designed vote-counting
systems minimize these errors. Some systems, particularly older systems,
are not so well-designed,and are more prone to error. To illustrate this
problem, we will describe some reliability problems with the oldest type
of computerized ballot still in use, the Vote-O-Matic(tm). This system
was once very popular and is still used in many places, including 15 Florida
counties: Broward, Collier, Dade, Duval, Highlands, Hillsborough, Indian
River, Lee, Marion, Osceola, Palm Beach, Pasco, Pinellas, Sarasota, and
Sumpter.
The following describes reliability problems
associated with one phase of the elections process: gathering ballots and
running them through readers. Problems may occur in other phases, included
materials design and printing, polling place administration, voter education,
and vote tally software. By focusing on this one phase, we do not imply
that the other phases are trivial. Conducting elections is demanding work,
in all phases. Also, this paper focuses on errors. Elections frauds certainly
have arisen in the history of American politics, but to our knowledge no
fraud has been alleged in the ballot counting process for this election.
Some level of error is inevitable when counting Vote-O-Matic ballots, however.
CPSR has been studying Vote-O-Matic-type vote
counting systems for over ten years. Experts, including CPSR's own project
personnel, have concluded that the Vote-O-Matic system has inherent accuracy
limitations. Furthermore,careful manual counting of Vote-O-Matic ballots
should always be more accurate than machine counts.
The Vote-O-Matic system uses as a ballot the
Hollerith punch card, also known as a "computer card." This once-common
card is roughly 3" by 7", with small rectangular holes. For Vote-O-Matic
cards, each hole in the card represents a vote for one candidate (or in
favor or against a ballot measure). The ballot is counted by feeding it,
short-side first, into a reader. (The card is made with one corner clipped,
so that the correct end of the card is fed in first.) The reader has lights
and sensors. When a hole passes over the sensor, light shines through,
and the hole is read as a vote.
Hollerith cards were used for the 1890 census,
and millions and millions of critical activities between then and the 1970's.
Thus, one might expect the Vote-O-Matic system to be extremely reliable.
But important differences between the standard Hollerith card and the Vote-O-Matic
card make the Vote-O-Matic far less stable and reliable. There are three
main problem areas:
- ballots
- ballot reader machines
- what happens when a ballot reader reads a
ballot
* Ballots
The ballots use essentially the same card size
and hole positions that IBM adopted in 1924 soon after they bought Hollerith's
company. However, the cards are not the same. Hollerith's approach was
to punch a hole in a solid piece of paper. Vote-O-Matic cards are pre-punched.
Each square "chad" is held in place by a small wad of paper fibers at each
corner. The vote then makes a hole by pushing the chad out with a round
stylus. However, sometimes a chad will be partly punched out or will snag
on something and be pulled out, creating what is known as "hanging chad."
Hanging chad can be attached at one, two, or
three corners. Chad attached at one corner are usually torn off by the
card reader or in handling. Chad attached at two corners are also often
torn off, unless the two corners are on the side of the chad that is fed
first into the card reader. Then, often,the chad will be forced back into
the hole, only to flap open again later. chad attached at three corners
are also usually forced closed by the card reader. Handling the cards can
also change the status of hanging chad. Some studies have been done on
chad, but there are many independent variable and complicating situations,
so the preceding is a generalization.
These pre-punched cards are also reportedly
sensitive to changes humidity. The reasons have not, to our knowledge,
been studied, but it is likely because the chad loses and gains moisture
faster than the bulk material. Thus taking a box of Vote-O-Matic cards
from an air-conditioned room to a humid evening to another air-conditioned
room will have unpredictable effects. It may take the cards some time to
settle down after the ordeal.
The pre-punches also make the cards less rigid
than a normal Hollerith card,and thus more prone to bending. Bent cards
often cause problems during reading. The trailing edge of the card is uneven,
because of tabs from where the write-in tab was detached. The faces of
the card are not as smooth as a regular card, again due to the pre-punches.
 
* Ballot Reader Machines
So far as we know, there are no longer any
manufacturers of Hollerith card readers. High-speed card readers have a
lot of precision parts. Existing readers must be periodically rebuilt,
but many companies no longer exist and the remaining manufacturers, so
far as we know, no longer offer maintenance contracts on the units. Elections
is about the last market left for Hollerith card readers. Elections companies
buy up equipment from counties as they move away from Vote-O-Matic systems,
and sell it jurisdictions still using Vote-O-Matic.
Elections aren't a particularly hard life for
a card reader, since a reader is only used for a few days a year. Still,
the readers eventually need to be rebuilt, which elections companies do
with a dwindling supply of spares,hangar queens, and whatever rebuild protocols
they devise. Still, some parts age more on calendar time than with use.
As the readers age, they become less reliable and more prone to error and
breakdown.
 
* What Happens When a Ballot Reader Reads a
Ballot
Ideally, a stack of ballots is sucked one-at-a-time
from the input hopper to the output hopper of a card reader, each being
counted accurately. However,sometimes two cards are sucked through. This
is probably because pre-punching makes small ridges on the bottom of the
card, and an identical pattern of small troughs on the top. The ridges
tend to get caught in the troughs. Also, feed mechanisms have to be engineered
with consideration of the air cushion between the cards, as one moves relative
to the other. This air cushion will not have the same properties for Vote-O-Matic
cards as for normal cards, due to surface roughness. For whatever reason,
misfeeds happen.
Hanging chad can flip open and closed. Detached
chad can become stuck in the feed path, increasing double feeds and misfeeds.
Detached chad can jam two cards together, increasing misfeeds. In some
machines, detached chad can jam over the light or sensor, causing holes
to not be read until the chad blows out of the way. Detached chad can migrate
from one card to the next.
Chad that was not detached before, but merely
buckled or only detached on one corner (which counts as "not an open hole"
in many jurisdictions) can catch on other cards and become hanging chad
or be torn loose.
The read process can be quite traumatic to
a Vote-O-Matic card.
 
Q: Is counting ballots by hand more or less
reliable than counting them by machine?
A: A human count of Vote-O-Matic cards should
almost always produce a significantly more accurate result than automated
reading. People cannot count cards as quickly as a card reader, but a card
reader is much more limited than a person in how it can handle and read
a card. Any damage a card has sustained can confuse a card reader or cause
it to malfunction. People are better able to deal with such problems.
Unfortunately, reading a Vote-O-Matic card
by machine changes the card. Cards that have had one or more trips through
a high-speed card reader will appear different to a human reader than they
would have when freshly punched by the voter.
Erik Nilsson, an election technology analyst
for CPSR, believes that the Vote-O-Matic system should be replaced. "For
a quarter century, election experts have been calling for the Vote-O-Matic
system to be retired. The results of the 2000 election show that it is
now time move beyond this temperamental antique."
 
Q: Would Internet voting solve this problem?
A: Internet voting is often suggested as a
solution to election counting problems, but has many problems of its own,
for example:
- If people voted from home, it would be very
difficult, perhaps
impossible, to assure that those who vote are
who they say they are.
Someone could vote for one of their family
members, for example.
- If people vote from home rather than in a
polling place, vote secrecy and privacy could be compromised. Elections
in many democratic societies, including the U.S., are based on the promise
of secret ballots, where only the voter knows who he or she voted for (unless
he or she chooses to tell others).
- A home-based Internet-based voting system
would favor people who have computers and Internet connections at home.
Such amenities are not possessed by all citizens in the U.S.
- Purely electronic ballots leave no paper
trail, so electronic subversion of voting records could be difficult or
impossible to detect.
- Voting from home could destroy the sense
of shared civic responsibility and pride that most people clearly feel
when they go to an actual polling place to vote.
On the other hand, Internet voting could offer
the following advantages:
- Customized presentation of voting choices,
for example voter-selected font size
- Reliable vote tabulation
- Access for the disabled, and rural
- Can handle large numbers of voters
Computers, of course, can and will be used
in elections. One approach that could provide the advantages without many
of the disadvantages would be to provide Internet terminals in polling
places. Voters would come to the polling place and identify themselves,
as they always have. Vote-O-Matic and other outdated, unreliable systems
would be replaced by more current technology. Each polling place would
have a "manual" backup system on site, for when the network connections
or computers fail (as they surely will) or when a voter is simply unable
to understand how to use the computer.
A home-based Internet voting system is completely
out of the question until access to the Internet in the U.S. is universal.
Until such a time, adopting a home-based Internet voting system would be
unconstitutional. Today we are far from universal access. For example,
in some urban poor districts, 14% of households lack even basic phone service,
much less Internet connections. On some Indian reservations, the percentage
of phone-less households is even higher: 40%.
Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility
was founded in the early 1980s by computer scientists and engineers who
were concerned about the use of computer technology in military applications,
particularly the Strategic Defense, or "Star Wars", Initiative. In the
mid-1980s, the organization branched out to include other issues, such
as electronic privacy, freedom of speech, and the use of computer technology
in elections.
For further information, please visit CPSR's
website:
http://www.cpsr.org/issues/voting.html
or contact the CPSR office
at 650-322-3778 or cpsr@cpsr.org to be directed
to experts in the area of Internet voting.
Susan Evoy * Managing Director
http://www.cpsr.org/
Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility
P.O. Box 717 * Palo Alto * CA * 94302
Phone: (650) 322-3778 *
Email: evoy@cpsr.org
 
 
 
 


