http://www.ics.uci.edu/~feldman/lec14F00.html





lec14F00.doc



Lecture Fourteen--ICS 131--Fall
00--9 Nov 2000
 
Review of Lecture 13--Telecommuting
What made it possible?
hardware, software, communication developments
Conflicting Pressures
Control by Organization
Face-to-face
Space crunch
Commuting--time, expense, environment
Victor's interest in techniques for developing
 
a team when all members are not physically present
Another example of space crunch
Nieves, Evelyn. Mission district fights case of dot-com
fever,
NY Times, 5 Nov 00, A21 (optional)
------------------------------------
Lecture 14--Computers and Elections
Readings
Wayne, Leslie. E-mail part of the effort to turn out the voters,
NY Times, 6 Nov 00, C6 (R)
Mercuri, Rebecca. Voting Automation (Early and Often?),
Commun ACM, Nov 00, 176 (R)
 
California Internet Voting Task Force. A report on the feasibility of
Internet voting, January 2000; www.ss.ca.gov/executive/ivote/home.htm (O)
Weinstein, L. Risks of Internet voting. Commun ACM, Jun 00, 6 (O)
Weber, Thomas E. Anchors, away! web offers data, minus TV's filler,
WSJ, 7 Nov 00, B1, B4 (O)

1. Redistricting
The seats in the House of Representatives are allocated to the states
on the basis of the population determined by the decennial census. Each
state then has the responsibility of establishing geographical districts,
usually one district for every seat. The district decisions are often made
by the legislature or by the legislature and the governor. The party in
power tries to create districts which will maximize the number of seats
the party can win. The geographical nature of districts is a fine art with
a long history. The design extremes are known as gerrymandering after somebody
named "gerry" who practiced the art.
In recent years, computer graphics has played a large part in the
development of district design. Some of the recent designs have been rejected
by the courts, but the effort continues.


2. Campaigns
 
A. Soliciting volunteers, funds
B. Responding to opponent claims
C. Deciding where to campaign
D. Getting the vote out

3. Election night
 
Trying to predict a winner.
Exit polls
Early returns
Signal precints, counties
Changes from previous elections

4. Voting
 
Paper ballots
Voting machines--electromechanical
Ballot scanners--the Orange County experience
Punch cards
Voting on terminals in polling places
On-line voting from home or polling places
Mail ballots
access for disabled, increase turn out

5. Do computers make a difference
 
A. Cut costs of campaigns?
B. Target ads, solicitations
C. Early predictions
D. Counting the vote
 

On-line voting preventing ballot mistakes, e.g.,

Voting for two presidential candidates










6. Miscellany
Could lottery systems be used for on-line voting?
How are elections done on campus? students? faculty?
  

Logistics
Readings for Lecture 15
Dreazen, Yochi J, and Kuntz, Phil.
 
New OSHA proposal enrages businesses, WSJ, 8 Nov 00, A2, A6
Cornell web site:  http://ergo.human.cornell.edu
Dr Ergo web site

-----------------
Schedule
Friday is a holiday
Lecture 15 on Monday
Victor's section in this room on Tuesday
-------------------
More on computers and health care
Landro, Laura. Experimental web site gives parents a link to hospitalized
babies, WSJ, 27 Oct 00, B1 (optional)
---------------------
ICS career night--14 Nov--saorsvp@ics.uci.edu
5:30-8:00, dinner and dessert
---------------
Fed sites fail on privacy, Commun ACM, Nov 00, 9
"Most federal Web sites do not meet the commercial standards for
Internet privacy set by the Federal Trade Commission, including the FTC's
own site, a study by the General Accounting Office has found."


