https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/author/andre/page/6






	andre – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory





Author Archive

Visitors from The Netherlands

April 8, 2014
Luxi and Micky are master students from the University of Amsterdam. They will spend four months with us researching how to crowdsource software design activities. Welcome!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Visitors from The Netherlands


Tablet tower to server tower

April 1, 2014
What do you do when you need to do a lot of parallel data processing but cloud services are just too expensive? Turn your lab’s tablets into servers, of course!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Tablet tower to server tower


Marian Petre visit

March 30, 2014
Our long-term collaborator Marian Petre from The Open University visited us last week. Her insights are always much appreciated and we already look forward to her next visit!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Marian Petre visit


Welcome Mengyao and John

February 3, 2014
Mengyao is a first year Ph.D. student in Informatics. She is interested in doing research in design practice, more specifically the creative nature of it. John is a first year M.S. student in Computer Science. He is interested in doing research in software architecture, particularly the field of software as a service (SaaS). Welcome!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Mengyao and John


New Scholarships

February 3, 2014
Congratulations to Nick Lopez and Christian Adriano, who were recently granted the 2014 Miguel Velez scholarship.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on New Scholarships


Visit to MobileWorks

December 8, 2013
Thomas visited MobileWorks, a Berkeley based startup providing a platform for microtask crowdsourcing. Thomas gave a demo of CrowdCode and had a great discussion!

 Posted in Travel |   Comments Off on Visit to MobileWorks


New workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering

December 8, 2013
Thomas is co-organizing a new workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSI-SE), in conjunction with ICSE 2014. The workshop will be a one day event with invited talks, a poster and demos session, and a crowd-based working session giving participants the opportunity to explore the application of crowdsourcing to software engineering and begin to forge […]

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on New workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering


Paper on Calico to appear at CHI 2014!

December 8, 2013
Our paper, Supporting Informal Design with Interactive Whiteboards, was accepted for inclusion at CHI 2014! Hope to see you in Toronto!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Paper on Calico to appear at CHI 2014!


2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists

November 20, 2013
André was recognized as one of the 2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists. A big congratulations to André! ACM announcement

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on 2013 ACM Distinguished Scientists


Visit to GE Research

October 23, 2013
SDCL visited GE Research labs in San Ramon. We presented our recent work on software design collaboration and crowd coding. We also had the opportunity to discuss interesting industry challenges in the fields of user experience and collaboration technology. We kindly thank Roberto Silveira for all the awesome meetings we had with his research peers.

 Posted in Travel |   Comments Off on Visit to GE Research


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





