http://www.ics.uci.edu/~feldman/lec5F00.html




lec5F00.doc


ICS 131--F00--Lecture Five--10 October 2000
1.  Some afterthoughts on Lecture Four--Beyond E-mail
	A.  Publications on-line
		Organizations
		Self-publishing
			Do-it-yourself
			Using a publisher
		Napster as a vehicle for self-publishing music
	B.  Retail sales
		Lots of articles on getting ready for Christmas
		Sales tax and internet sales
	C.  Buying v Renting Software
	D.  The village and privacy
		In the old village, everybody knew 
			everybody else's business
		Then people started moving away
			for various reasons
		Now people want to know your business
	E.  Beyond Business 2 Consumers
		B2B--Business to Business
		P2P--Person to person, e.g., napster
Readings
Schwartz, John.  New Economy:  Finding some middle ground in a world obsessed with the new and impatient with the old, NY Times, 9 Oct, C4.速
Richtel, Matt.  Signs of Market Saturation in PC World [Does almost everyone who wants a computer already own one?], NY Times, 9 Oct, C8.(o)
Morris, Bonnie Rothman.  A day in the life of the wired school, NY Times, 5 Oct, D1, D8 速
Hafner, Katie.  Schools and computer:  debate heats up, NY Times, 5 Oct, D8  速
Brown, John Seely, and Duguid, Paul.  The Social Life of Information.
Boston:  Harvard Business School Press, 2000.  HM 851 .B76 2000 (o)
-----------------------.  1996b "The University in the Digital Age."  Times higher Education  Supplement, 10 May (multimedia supplement): iv-vi.
Available: http://www.parc.xerox.com/ops/members/brown/papers/university.html
[1999, July 21]. 速
2.  Education
	A. Elementary education
Morris, Bonnie Rothman.  A day in the life of the wired school, NY Times, 5 Oct, D1, D8
Viola Elementary School, Suffern, NY
Some examples:
 
1.  Fifth Grade Language Arts
	Using web sites to get information for a report on Gary Paulsen,
	author of books for young readers
2.  Third graders
	Scanning photos
3.  Sixth grade science students using
	Weather satellite information, and
	Weather web sites
	to track a tropical storm
Viola has 
	544 students, k-6
	I-Books: 22 on a cart
	PC's:	
		6  in every classroom
		12  in library
		20in a lab
	video camera--1
	e-mail, excel, powerpoint
96% of public schools have I-net access.
How is it being used?
Trap--Using computer just for sake of using it
Trick--How to use them creatively?  What does it take to do it?
Great ways to use computers in elementary schools
and lots of way to do it poorly
	B.  Elementary Education
Hafner, Katie.  Schools and computer:  debate heats up, NY Times, 5 Oct, D8
Allianceforchildhood.org
Moratorium on introduction of computers into elementary schools
until their effect on your children is assessed more carefully.
85 experts
Waldorf education
C.  Colleges and Universities
Brown, John Seely, and Duguid, Paul.  The Social Life of Information.
Boston:  Harvard Business School Press, 2000.  HM 851 .B76 2000
-----------------------.  1996b "The University in the Digital Age."  Times higher Education  Supplement, 10 May (multimedia supplement): iv-vi.
Available: http://www.parc.xerox.com/ops/members/brown/papers/university.html
[1999, July 21].
Schwartz, John.  New Economy:  Finding some middle ground in a world obsessed with the new and impatient with the old, NY Times, 9 Oct, C4.
[interview with JSB]
Chapter 8--Re-education
	Basic theme:  computers and the web are not going to eliminate the
world as we know it.  best solution is to use them to augment and improve what we have.
	On Colleges and Universities
	1.  Pressures for Change
		a.  Changes in Student Body
			from one school for four years
			from all 18-22 year olds
		b.  Changes in Competition for students
			Open University in UK
			University of Phoenix
			Unplug and play
		    Changes in Competition on research
			people and money
			PARC, Microsoft
		c.  New Technologies
			Do things differently
			Do things more cheaply
 
	2.  The New Model
		25 Courses make up half the curriculum in two-year schools
		and one-third of the curriculum in four-year schools
		The Hype problem--	
			IBM  ad--Italian Senior doing grad work at Indiana
			California Virtual University
			Penn State
	3.  The Old Model
		a.  What is it?
		b.  What's important about it?
			Degrees--Certification
			Incidental learning
			Peer Support
			local impact, Davis-wine, UCLA-film, B-computers
	4.  What could be improved?
		a.  Open up college education to disenfranchised
		b.  External degree model
		c.  Access to information
		d.  More flexibility
			Degree Granting Bodies
			Univ of Chicago exams
 


