https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/author/andre/page/7






	andre – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory





Author Archive

CrowdConf 2013

October 23, 2013
  Thomas La Toza and Christian Adriano have just attended CrowdConf. We received very interesting feedback on our CrowdCode platform. We also had extremely engaging conversations with people working on challenging crowdsourcing problems.

 Posted in Travel |   Comments Off on CrowdConf 2013


SCALE at IBM’s T.J. Watson Research Center

October 9, 2013
The SDCL just attended the SCALE conference at IBM’s T.J. Watson Research Center. There we had the great opportunity to share our current work on on crowd development, crowd debugging, and social-technical code search. We also had the privilege to hear interesting talks and have engaging discussion by and with IBMers and other SCALE members.

 Posted in Travel |   Comments Off on SCALE at IBM’s T.J. Watson Research Center


Article published in Empirical Software Engineering Journal

October 1, 2013
Looking to evaluate a software engineering tool in a study with developers? Check out our new ESE journal article for options, standard practices, and tradeoffs, grounded in a literature review of over 1700 software engineering papers. article

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Article published in Empirical Software Engineering Journal


Welcome Namrata!

September 29, 2013
We are very excited to welcome Namrata Puri to the laboratory. She is joining us as a new M.S. student and will be working on the UI of CodeExchange.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Namrata!


Congrats Dr. Nick!

September 18, 2013
Congratulations to Nick Mangano, who successfully defended his Ph.D. dissertation entitled ‘Calico: an early-phase software design tool’ on September 18, with a committee of Gary Olson, David Redmiles, and Marian Petre (in addition to his advisor, of course). After 6 years of very hard work, Nick is now off to make a commercial version of […]

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Congrats Dr. Nick!


CrowdCode at CrowdConf

September 11, 2013
Our abstract, CrowdCode: A platform for crowd development, was selected for both a poster and a talk at CrowdConf! Hope to see you in San Francisco.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on CrowdCode at CrowdConf


FuSE 2013

July 23, 2013
We attended the FuSE 2013 conference at Microsoft Research! Lots of interesting talks and engaging discussions on the future of software engineering.  

 Posted in Travel |   Comments Off on FuSE 2013


ISR Research Forum

May 30, 2013
SDCL is excited to welcome visitors to our lab for the ISR Research Forum. We have demos lined up of several of our research projects and are looking forward to exchanging ideas with both fellow researchers and developers from industry. If you’re in Irvine, we hope to see you there!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on ISR Research Forum


ICSE 2013

May 24, 2013
Six members of the SDCL, Gerald Bortis, Lee Martie, Christian Adriano, Nicolas Lopez, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek, as well as one of our alumni, Alfredo Motta, attended ICSE 2013. We presented papers and posters in a variety of the tracks and subevents, and had great conversations with our colleagues.

 Posted in Travel |   Comments Off on ICSE 2013


Lionel Briand visit

May 17, 2013
Lionel Briand visited the SDCL as part of his visit as an ISR Distinguished Speaker. Once more, we had great interactions and discussions about our research.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Lionel Briand visit


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





