https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/author/andre/page/8






	andre – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory





Author Archive

Jane Cleland-Huang visit

April 19, 2013
Another ISR Distinguished Speaker, another visitor to the SDCL. Jane Cleland-Huang from DePaul University visited our lab. She provided some great feedback on our research!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Jane Cleland-Huang visit


SCALE meeting in snowy Pittsburgh

April 1, 2013
Several SDCL members attended the SCALE meeting in Pittsburgh, presenting work in progress talks on crowd development, crowd debugging, social-technical code search, and topic mining. And we also had an opportunity to practice our snowball throwing skills.

 Posted in Travel |   Comments Off on SCALE meeting in snowy Pittsburgh


Arie van Deursen visit

March 14, 2013
We had a great time hosting Arie van Deursen from TU Delft in the Netherlands. We had a long demo session during which we provided us with some great feedback, and he gave a great talk as part of the ISR Distinguished Speaker series.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Arie van Deursen visit


SDCL ICSE Papers

February 28, 2013
SDCL will be presenting the following papers at ICSE 2013: Research track PorchLight: A Tag-Based Approach to Bug Triaging Gerald Bortis and Andre van der Hoek Education track Enabling a Classroom Design Studio with a Collaborative Sketch Design Tool Dastyni Loksa, Nicolas Mangano, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek MISE Workshop Light-weight Analysis of […]

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on SDCL ICSE Papers


Michele thanks

December 25, 2012
Michele Bonazza is now back in Italy to complete his Ph.D. program there. Time has gone very fast and we have had a great time. Look toward CaliSmall, a standalone adaptation of Calico for Android tablets, to hopefully appear in the Google Play store soon…

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Michele thanks


Marian Petre visit

December 12, 2012
Our long-term collaborator Marian Petre from The Open University visited us for this week, working on finalizing a book to be published out of the SPSD 2010 workshop (it is almost done!), and providing us with feedback on Nick Mangano’s work on analyzing sketches on whiteboards. Her insights are always much appreciated and we already […]

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Marian Petre visit


PorchLight ICSE paper!

December 4, 2012
Congrats to Gerald Bortis for the ICSE acceptance of his paper on PorchLight!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on PorchLight ICSE paper!


Affinity diagramming

November 18, 2012
We had a lot of fun grouping the results of Evelina’s and Thomas’ interviews. Nick Mangano suggested an indexation. Nick Lopez came up with many labels (topics?) to one note. Michele complained about so much meta-data. Lee suggested a group for the “unrelated”. Since the sticky notes moved all over the walls, the outcome looks promising. More […]

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Affinity diagramming


Welcome Sergio!

October 20, 2012
Our group continues to grow! We are very excited to welcome Sergio Villaverde Herrera to the laboratory. He is joining us for the year as an education abroad student from the University of Granada, Spain, and is exploring building a scalable server side to Calico (scalable to many many users).

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Sergio!


Groupwork on tablets

October 18, 2012
Michele – looking amused at the funny cat pictures we found while restoring some images from the tablets (sometimes, servers crash and important work is almost lost…).

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Groupwork on tablets


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





