https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/author/andre/page/9






	andre – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory





Author Archive

SDCL has moved

September 11, 2012
The SDCL has moved! Our new space is in ICS1, room 414 (see our directions page). Come visit us in our new space for a tour (and demos, as always!).

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on SDCL has moved


SCALE meeting in Nebraska

September 11, 2012
Four SDCL members visited Lincoln, NE for the SCALE meeting, joining collaborators at Carnegie Mellon and UNL in the cornfields. SDCL presented work on several ongoing projects including crowdsourced programming, tagging code, and triaging bugs. Andre gave a talk surveying the past, present, and future of SDCL. And we discussed ways of further involving industry […]

 Posted in Travel |   Comments Off on SCALE meeting in Nebraska


Welcome Michele!

September 11, 2012
We are very excited to welcome Michele Bonazza to the laboratory. He is joining us for four months as a visitor from the University of Padova, Italy, and will be developing an Android version of Calico (!)

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Michele!


Welcome Christian!

September 11, 2012
We are very excited to welcome Christian Adriano to the laboratory. He is joining us as a new Ph.D. student from Sao Paolo, Brazil.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Christian!


ICSE 2012

June 2, 2012
Four members of the SDCL, Lee Martie, Alfredo Motta, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek, will attend ICSE 2012. Lee will present in the MSR Challenge, Alfredo in the Doctoral Symposium, and Thomas in the ICSE main research track.

 Posted in Travel |   Comments Off on ICSE 2012


ISR Research Forum

May 18, 2012
The SDCL was an active participant in the ISR Research Forum, with numerous demos given during the open house and lots of good connections being made. All in all a fun day, especially with the great feedback we received on our projects.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on ISR Research Forum


Brazilian collaborators visit

April 16, 2012
SDCL friends Claudia Werner, Leo Murta, and Marcelo Schots visit us from UFRJ in Rio and UFF in Niteroi this week, exchanging research ideas, exploring collaborations, and working on a joint paper.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Brazilian collaborators visit


Welcome Alfredo Motta

April 2, 2012
We welcome Alfredo Motta to our lab; Alfredo is visiting us for four months from Politecnico di Milano, and is exploring how designers can be assisted with feedback about their designs in progress.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Welcome Alfredo Motta


Papers accepted

March 31, 2012
Congrats to Lee Martie for getting a paper accepted in the MSR 2012 Challenge track, and Nick Mangano for getting a paper accepted in JASE [link]. Well done!

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Papers accepted


Marian Petre visit

March 31, 2012
Marian Petre from The Open University visited us for this week, working on a book to be published out of the SPSD 2010 workshop and generally giving us feedback on all of our projects.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Marian Petre visit


« Previous Page
Next Page »








 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





