https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/author/andre/page/11






	andre – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory





Author Archive

NSF grant for Calico

August 6, 2011
We are delighted to announce that the NSF has awarded the SDCL a 2011 CCF grant in support of our work on Calico; the grant is entitled “Software Design Sketching”.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on NSF grant for Calico


Microsoft Faculty Summit

July 18, 2011
André van der Hoek is attending the Microsoft Faculty Summit.

 Posted in Travel |   Comments Off on Microsoft Faculty Summit


HCIC 2011

June 19, 2011
Nick Mangano attended HCIC 2011 this past week, learning more about the HCI community and its research methods in an intimate setting.

 Posted in Travel |   Comments Off on HCIC 2011


Graduates!

June 12, 2011
Congratulations to Nilmax Moura (M.S.), Robert Simpson (B.S.), and Danielle Song (B.S.). We will miss their contributions and presence in our lab!        

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Graduates!


Brazilian collaborators

June 10, 2011
Claudia Werner and Chessman Correa from UFRJ and Leo Murta from UFF visited us for a day on their way to South Korea.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Brazilian collaborators


ARCS dinner

April 22, 2011
Nick Mangano presents Calico at the annual celebration of ARCS scholarship recipients. Nick is the third SDCL member to receive an ARCS scholarship.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on ARCS dinner


Microsoft SEIF Award

April 18, 2011
We are proud to announce that Microsoft has awarded the SDCL a Microsoft Software Engineering Innovation Foundation Award in support of our work on Calico.

 Posted in News |   No Comments »


Welcome Lee Martie

April 18, 2011
We are very excited to welcome Lee Martie to the laboratory. He will be joining us this Fall from the Design Intelligence Laboratory at Georgia Tech, where he worked on the GAIA project.

 Posted in News |   No Comments »


ICSE 2011

April 16, 2011
Four members of the SDCL, Nick Mangano, Nicolas Lopez, Gerald Bortis, and André van der Hoek, will attend ICSE 2011, to present our work on Calico, the Code Orb, and TeamBugs.

 Posted in Travel |   No Comments »


« Previous Page









 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





