https://www.cs.uci.edu/four-winning-teams-recognized-at-zothacks-2021




Four Winning Teams Recognized at ZotHacks 2021 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Four Winning Teams Recognized at ZotHacks 2021
November 23, 2021 
Hack at UCI hosted their annual ZotHacks hackathon on Nov. 20-21. Thirteen teams of students participated in the hackathon and created web-based projects that ranged from a Petr drop locator to a book finder.
Participants were eligible to win $445 worth of prizes. Their projects were judged based on four criteria: technology, quality, purpose and growth.

Here are the winners of ZotHacks 2021:
Zot Point Average (Photo courtesy of Hack at UCI)
First Place: Zot Point Average 
Zot Point Average is a Google extension that displays the GPA and student grade distribution of classes within the UCI Schedule of Classes. The developers used the Peter Portal API to obtain information about grades.
Zot Point Average was created by second-year computer science majors Alexis Chau, Elyson Evangelista and Arwin Thong, and first-year business administration major Raymond Yan. Computer science graduate student Sitesh Pattanaik mentored the team. 

ZotDrops (Photo courtesy of Hack at UCI)
Second Place: ZotDrops 
Petr sticker drops are an iconic aspect of UCI student life. ZotDrops helps students easily locate these Petr drops by allowing Petr creators to post the type of Petr sticker as well as the drop date and location on a map and calendar. 
ZotDrops was created by second-year software engineering major Teryn Kum and computer science major/informatics minor Caroline Wang, and first-year computer science majors Danny Nguyen and Mia Schroeder. First-year computer science major Max Yeh mentored the team. 

 ZotBoard (Photo courtesy of Hack at UCI) 
Third Place: ZotBoard 
The past year of remote learning has made it challenging for students to connect with each other. With many classes still being held either partially or fully online, ZotBoard aims to support student interactions by allowing students to “ZOT down their thoughts” with drawings, notes and more on a public forum.
ZotBoard was created by second-year informatics major Nathan Nguyen and first-year computer science major Nicole Nguyen, computer science and engineering major Priyansha Sharma and business information management major Kristen Yee. Computer engineering graduate student Kenny Tang mentored the team. 

Quizify (Photo courtesy of Hack at UCI)
Hackers’ Choice: Quizify 
Spotify’s Wrapped is something many Spotify users look forward to at the end of the year. Quizify put a spin on Wrapped by creating a game that collects a Spotify user’s top 50 songs within the past six months. As the app presents different song lyrics, players need to guess which song the lyrics are from. 
Quizify was created by first-year data science major Anthony Cusimano, software engineering major John Daniel Norombaba, and computer science majors John Lorenzini and Lawrence Lu. First-year computer science major Eric Pedley mentored the team. 

Hack at UCI will host HackUCI 2022, the largest collegiate hackathon in Orange County, in the upcoming winter quarter. 
— Karen Phan
« Alumni Spotlight: Devin Held ’15 shares her journey from UCI to Arteria AIDisney Research Supports Stephan Mandt’s Work on Generative Modeling with $50,000 Gift »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




