https://www.cs.uci.edu/disney-research-supports-stephan-mandts-work-on-generative-modeling-with-50000-gift




Disney Research Supports Stephan Mandt’s Work on Generative Modeling with $50,000 Gift 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Disney Research Supports Stephan Mandt’s Work on Generative Modeling with $50,000 Gift
December 1, 2021 

Stephan Mandt, an assistant professor of computer science and statistics in UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), received an unrestricted gift of $50,000 from Disney Research Los Angeles to support his work on generative modeling.
Mandt is exploring how to use machine learning under resource constraints — in particular, given a lack of relevant training data. “In other words, how might you train a deep learning algorithm to mimic speech when you don’t have massive amounts of available speech recordings?”

Mandt is currently teaching a related course (CS 295: Deep Generative Models), examining how deep learning models can generate new data such as video, text, speech or images. These models generate artificial data that humans cannot easily distinguish from real-world data. At the same time, deep generative models can also be used to compress data such as images with unprecedented performance.
“This course is essentially along the lines of some of my work on generating and compressing images and video,” he says. “We can apply similar tools that we use to generate artificial video and other sequential data to generate acoustic data and speech.”
Mandt’s approach toward resource-efficient deep learning uses a unified set of mathematical and statistical methods, where he combines ideas from deep learning, Bayesian statistics, and information theory. “Making deep learning more resource-efficient is of enormous societal relevance,” he explained after receiving an NSF CAREER Award earlier this year. “Algorithms will make better decisions with less data, making them more reliable in safety-critical areas such as autonomous driving. Also, more data can be processed with less energy and storage.” This unrestricted gift will help advance Mandt’s research and teaching in the area of deep generative modeling.
— Shani Murray
« Four Winning Teams Recognized at ZotHacks 2021ICS Students Train for Embedded Capture the Flag Competition »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




