https://www.cs.uci.edu/nalini-venkatasubramanian-named-acm-2021-distinguished-member




Nalini Venkatasubramanian Named ACM 2021 Distinguished Member 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Nalini Venkatasubramanian Named ACM 2021 Distinguished Member
January 3, 2022 

On Dec. 15, 2021, the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) recognized its 2021 Distinguished Members, including Professor Nalini Venkatasubramanian of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS).
“Each year we are excited to recognize a new class of ACM Distinguished Members for their professional achievements, as well as their longstanding membership with ACM,” explained ACM President Gabriele Kotsis in the announcement. “The Distinguished Members program is a way both to celebrate the trailblazing work of our members, and to underscore how participation with a professional society enhances one’s career growth.”

Venkatasubramanian was one of eight people recognized for outstanding engineering contributions to computing. Her research focuses on enabling effective management and use of resources in the evolving global information infrastructure. She has led several efforts to develop smart communities, including one project focused on a Smart Water Data-Exchange (SWADE) framework and another (SPARx Cal) focused on technologies that enable wildfire resilience.
Her latest project, “CareDEX: Enabling Disaster Resilience in Aging Communities via a Secure Data Exchange,” is a $1 million collaboration that aims to make it easier for caregivers at senior housing facilities to share real-time critical care information with authorized responders.
The ACM Distinguished Members program, initiated in 2006, recognizes those members with at least 15 years of professional experience who have made significant accomplishments or achieved a significant impact on the computing field. ACM Distinguished Membership recognizes up to 10% of ACM’s top members.
— Shani Murray
« ICS Students Train for Embedded Capture the Flag CompetitionTech Startup Emerge is Transforming Virtual Communication »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




