https://www.cs.uci.edu/senior-spotlight-kazeem-salaam-promotes-stem-learning-combining-programming-skills-with-a-passion-for-helping-others




Senior Spotlight: Kazeem Salaam Promotes STEM Learning, Combining Programming Skills with a Passion for Helping Others 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Senior Spotlight: Kazeem Salaam Promotes STEM Learning, Combining Programming Skills with a Passion for Helping Others
October 26, 2021 
Kazeem Salaam
If you’re a local student, you might already know senior Kazeem Salaam, a computer science major at UCI in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS). Perhaps he helped you better understand Python or C++ through the 4.0 Club, a free tutoring service for ICS and engineering students at UCI. Or he might have introduced you to the MIT App Inventor as a K-12 web application instructor, or to Raspberry Pi as a volunteer for the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) youth program, Engineers of the Future. Or maybe you’ve watched his video on How to Use LeetCode. Because when Salaam isn’t studying software development at UCI or interning at Amazon, he’s often sharing his knowledge with others in the classroom or documenting his own experiences on his YouTube channel ZeemTheDream, encouraging students — especially those from underrepresented backgrounds — to explore careers in STEM.

What first sparked your interest in computer science?Growing up, my dad really inspired me to learn about programming, but I never fully took the initiative to learn more. When I got to my senior year of high school, I did extensive research into computer science and all that it entails. I found it very interesting and was really drawn to how software engineers solve everyday problems using programming languages. After that, I knew computer science was the major that I wanted to pursue.
What led you to UCI?UCI has a great computer science program and the campus is very beautiful. After going on a campus tour, I knew it would be the best fit for me.
Have you had a favorite ICS professor or class?I personally enjoyed ICS 31 with Professor Shannon Alfaro. It was my first programming class ever and also the most exciting. I had a great experience learning about the basics of Python, and it sparked an even greater interest to learn more about what programs could accomplish.
Can you talk about being featured in the video, “The 2%: Navigating UCI as a Black Student,” and your involvement in the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)?I think that video was very important in showcasing what it entails to be a Black student at UCI and to have a welcoming space. I talked about how for me, NSBE was that welcoming space that not only provided networking opportunities with people who looked like me, but also provided different computer science opportunities to advance my career. Having clubs like NSBE is significant because it allows you to visualize and attain a successful future by having a community of peers whose goals/successes are aligned with yours.
What motivates you to teach youth and to volunteer for NSBE Engineers of the Future?Before committing to my computer science path, I was very hesitant and unsure of whether my goals were possible. By volunteering with youth, I hope to inform, encourage, and inspire others like me to pursue a career in computer science or STEM, if they are interested. I enjoy volunteering because I know that it can have a huge impact for future students.
 Kazeem Salaam teaching K-12 students about STEM and web/mobile applications. Here he is conducting the daily timed challenge in which students compete to see which group produces the best app functions. 
What motivated you to create ZeemTheDream?I started the YouTube channel to document my journey as a Black computer science student at UCI, and it has developed into me sharing some of the knowledge that I have acquired through different experiences. The goal for me has always been to help people, and with my YouTube community, I believe that I can continue to produce helpful content that captures how I’ve navigated not only through college, but my life and work in the tech industry as well!
Can you also talk about your recent summer internship at Amazon?My internship at Amazon was a great experience because it allowed me to work on an existing team with many established software engineers. Throughout the internship, I got the chance to independently work on an impactful project and roll it out to production. I was treated as a team member, which granted me the benefits of asking questions about existing architectures, diving into the Amazon company culture, and developing my skills as a computer science student.
Kazeem Salaam outside the plant-filled spheres at the Amazon headquarters in Seattle.
Any advice for prospective students?My advice for prospective students would be to apply to internships as soon as you can. Internships allow you to apply what you have been learning in school and actually understand how it is relevant in the industry. At the end of the day, the work you do in an internship will be the most similar to the work you do after college.
What are your goals for your senior year, and what are your plans for the future?My goals for this year are to do the best that I can academically, but also enjoy the remaining of my undergraduate experience. I plan on having the most fun that I can! My plan for the future is to start working in the industry and develop a way to give to my community. I have always been passionate about helping others who look like me and whose goals are aligned with mine, so I’ll keep finding ways to inspire others.
Shani Murray
« Sang-Woo Jun and Collaborators Win Best Paper Award for Predictive Maintenance at the EdgeComputer Science Ph.D. Student Vikram Narayanan Receives IBM Fellowship »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




