https://www.cs.uci.edu/ics-welcomes-3-new-faculty-for-2021




ICS Welcomes 3 New Faculty for 2021 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


ICS Welcomes 3 New Faculty for 2021
October 5, 2021 
The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences is pleased to introduce the following three faculty who joined ICS in academic year 2021-22. These outstanding researchers and educators advance our school’s strategic priorities in the areas of computer vision, health informatics, information sciences, machine learning, operating systems, and security. With these new hires, ICS has more than 100 tenure-track faculty, reflecting the unprecedented growth in our enrollments and research activity.


Alex Berg
Associate Professor, Computer SciencePh.D. Computer Science, UC Berkeley
Berg’s research concerns computational visual recognition. He has worked on general object recognition in images, action recognition in video, human pose identification in images, image parsing, face recognition, image search, and machine learning for computer vision. He co-organizes the ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge, and has co-organized a series of workshops on large scale recognition in computer vision. Berg’s Ph.D. at UC Berkeley developed a novel approach to deformable template matching. He is currently a research scientist at Facebook AI Research and a research associate professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Berg will be joining the ICS faculty in winter 2022.

Anton Burtsev
Assistant Professor, Computer SciencePh.D., Computer Science, University of Utah
Burtsev is a systems researcher with many years of first-hand experience in designing and building operating systems. Currently, he is interested in clean slate design of operating systems for novel hardware and software environments, and in the practical evolution of existing systems toward hardware, software and security requirements in the age of warehouse computing. Burtsev’s research covers novel operating system designs that utilize programming language safety of the Rust programming language for security and reliability, secure cloud architectures, and operating system support for modern low-latency, heterogeneous datacenters. He’s been in UCI’s Department of Computer Science since 2016 and became an assistant professor in July 2021.

Madhu Reddy
Professor, InformaticsPh.D., Information and Computer Science, UC Irvine
Reddy’s primary interests are in understanding how we can better design and implement health information technologies to improve communication and collaboration in clinical settings. His interdisciplinary research connects medical informatics, computer-supported cooperative work, and information sciences. Reddy’s research has been supported by NSF, Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Commonwealth Fund, the National Network of Libraries of Medicine Mid-Atlantic Region, and the Center for Integrated Healthcare Delivery Systems. He is an American College of Medical Informatics Fellow and was awarded the American Medical Informatics Association’s Diana Forsythe Award in 2002 and 2010. Reddy was a professor at Northwestern University before joining ICS faculty in July 2021.
« Faisal Nawab Receives Facebook Award for Next-Generation Data InfrastructureStephan Mandt and Collaborators Receive $3.5 Million to Study Machine Learning for Climate Science »

Latest news


Graduate Student Spotlight: Markelle Kelly Highlights the Human Side of Computer Science
October 15, 2022


UCI and BlackBerry Win NSF Convergence Accelerator Grant
October 12, 2022


BBC: “The Computer Errors From Outer Space” (Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi quoted)
October 12, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




