https://www.cs.uci.edu/chen-li-receives-nsf-grant-for-collaborative-data-analytics




Chen Li Receives NSF Grant for Collaborative Data Analytics 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Chen Li Receives NSF Grant for Collaborative Data Analytics
September 21, 2021 

Online collaboration has been popular for a while now, thanks to tools such as Dropbox and GitHub, but it took on new significance during the COVID-19 pandemic. Over the past year, more and more teams with members from multiple disciplines with different backgrounds have been collaborating and analyzing data online. This is where the research of Computer Science Professor Chen Li of UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) comes into play. Li is working to develop new techniques that support novel online services for collaborative data analytics.

Working with Assistant Professor of Public Health Suellen Hopfer at UCI and Computer Science Professor Wei Wang of UCLA, Li is exploring how to support online analytics centered on machine learning. The three-year research project, Collaborative Machine-Learning-Centric Data Analytics at Scale, recently received $1.2 million in funding from the National Science Foundation (NSF). It builds on the Texera system currently used in several collaborative projects in Public Health at UCI.
The goal is to support collaborative data analytics with online services that
can be used by people without a strong IT background;support ML-based operations including labeling, training, and classification; support asynchronous collaboration; and are scalable for big data analytics.
By meeting these requirements, the services would support both intradisciplinary and interdisciplinary teams across differing working schedules. Furthermore, the researchers are working to make state-of-the-art ML techniques more easily accessible as pre-packaged operators available in cloud-based services.
“The techniques will significantly lower the barriers to entry in terms of enabling domain-specific analysts — as opposed to computer-science-trained Big Data experts — to gather and to efficiently, effectively, and interactively analyze large quantities of data in different domains,” explain the researchers in their grant abstract. “Enabling and streamlining such analyses by domain scientists, ML experts, and systems developers stands to provide critical insights for use in areas such as public health, pandemic control, and government policies.”
— Shani Murray
« Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi’s Work on Solar Superstorms Raises Concerns of Internet ApocalypseNSF Civic Innovation Challenge Awards $1 Million to UCI for Disaster Resilience in Aging Communities »

Latest news


Graduate Student Spotlight: Markelle Kelly Highlights the Human Side of Computer Science
October 15, 2022


UCI and BlackBerry Win NSF Convergence Accelerator Grant
October 12, 2022


BBC: “The Computer Errors From Outer Space” (Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi quoted)
October 12, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




