https://www.ics.uci.edu/~amirr1



About | Amir M. Rahmani




























Amir M. Rahmani
Associate Professor University of California, Irvine 





About




Publications




Projects




Teaching




Students




Professional Services





Honors




Contact





















Amir M. Rahmani
PhD, MBA


About Me:

I am an Associate Professor of Nursing and Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine (UCI). I am also the Associate Director of the UCI Institute for Future Health, a campus-wide organized research unit (ORU) focusing on personal health empowerment. I lead the multi-disciplinary HealthSciTech Group at UCI. Prior to joining UCI as a faculty, I was an EU Marie Curie Global Fellow in the Computer Science Department of University of California, Irvine, USA and in the Institute of Computer Technology of TU Wien, Vienna, Austria.
I am also an adjunct professor (Docent) in embedded parallel and distributed computing in the Department of Future Technologies of University of Turku, Turku, Finland.



I received my Ph.D. from the IT department at University of Turku, Finland, and my M.Sc. from ECE department at University of Tehran.
I also received my MBA jointly from Turku School of Economics and European Institute of Innovation & Technology (EIT) Digital.
I worked as a visiting researcher in the department of Industrial and Medical Electronics of KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden (2/15-2/16).
I am the recipient of the UCI Beall Applied Innovation’s inaugural Faculty Innovation Fellowship, Nokia Foundation's Research Excellence Award (2 consecutive years), Ulla Tuominen Foundation's research excellence award, UTU's Teacher of the Year candidate, UTU's Rector awarded life-time Docent title,
and the European Union's awarded Global Marie Curie Fellowship. 



 

My research is in medical cyber-physical systems, Internet-of-Things (IoT), and e-health.
My work spans ubiquitous computing, wearable technology, applied machine learning, bio-signal processing, health informatics, and fog/edge computing.
I am especially excited about novel sensing, computation, analytics, informatics, communication, and networking paradigms, applied to healthcare and wellbeing applications.
 

Laboratory Website:




UCI Institute for Future Health's Website:




Research Center Affiliations:

Center for Embedded and Cyber-Physical Systems (CECS), University of California, Irvine, USA.
Institute for Future Health (IFH), University of California, Irvine, USA.
Internet-of-Things for Healthcare Group (IoT4Health), University of Turku, Finland.
Connected Learning Labs (CLL), University of California, Irvine, USA.



 


















