https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1333



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



April 24,  2018


Goodrich Elected to Royal Danish Academy of Sciences & Letters



Michael Goodrich, UCI Chancellor’s Professor of computer science, has been elected as a foreign member of the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences & Letters. Goodrich is a leader in the field of algorithm design, where he is highly recognized for research in geometric computing, networking, geographic information systems, computer security and big data processing. His recent work has focused on fundamental problems such as sorting, convex hull construction, nearest-neighbor searching, linear programming, privacy-preserving data access and data authentication. After earning a Ph.D. in computer science at Purdue University in 1987, Goodrich joined the faculty at Johns Hopkins University. In 2001, he became a professor at UCI, where he has advised 17 doctoral students and taught hundreds of undergraduates. He has co-authored multiple textbooks, including Introduction to Computer Security and Algorithm Design & Applications, of which more than 100,000 copies have been sold, and he has over 300 peer-reviewed publications. Goodrich is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers, and the Association for Computing Machinery. In 2007, he was a Fulbright senior specialist in Denmark. “I am deeply honored to have received this recognition,” Goodrich said. “My collaborations with Danish researchers began even before my Fulbright visit to Denmark and have continued to today. I’m looking forward to the opportunities for further collaboration that membership in the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences & Letters can provide.” Founded in 1742 for the advancement of science in Denmark, the academy is known to be highly selective, with Albert Einstein and Marie Curie among former electees. It currently has about 250 national members and 260 foreign members.


Story courtesy of UCI News

Goodrich Elected to Royal Danish Academy of Sciences & Letters
< Previous
 Luminaries from the Game Industry Take Over Classes as Guest Lecturers
            
Next >
 Maricela Cruz Receives Latino Excellence Award for ICS
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











