https://www.stat.uci.edu/minor-in-statistics




Minor in Statistics 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Minor in Statistics
The minor in Statistics is designed to provide students with exposure to both statistical theory and practice.  The minor requires a total of seven courses.  These include a mathematics course, five core statistics courses, and an elective that may be taken from among several departments.  Some of the courses used to complete the minor may include prerequisites that may or may not be part of a student’s course requirements for their major.  Because of this the minor is somewhat intensive, but it is a useful complement to a variety of undergraduate fields for quantitatively inclined students.  The minor, supplemented with a few additional courses (mathematics and computing), would provide sufficient background for graduate study in statistics. Students considering a minor in Statistics should meet with the Director of Undergraduate Studies in Statistics as early as possible to plan their coursework.
NOTE:  Students may not receive both a minor in Statistics and a specialization in Statistics within the Mathematics major.
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MINOR IN STATISTICS:
Six required courses:  
Mathematics 3A or Mathematics 6G (Introduction to Linear Algebra)
Statistics 120A-B-C (Introduction to Probability and Statistics)
Statistics 110-111 (Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I & II)
One elective course:
Students select one course from the following list:
Statistics 7 (Basic Statistics) or equivalent course (but only if taken prior to Statistics 110)
Statistics112 (Statistical Methods for Data Analysis III)
Statistics 121 (Probability Models)
Mathematics 105A or 105B (Numerical Analysis)
Mathematics 130B or 130C (Probability and Stochastic Processes)
Mathematics 132B or 132C (Discrete Probability and Mathematical Theory of Sample Surveys)
Information and Computer Science 21 (Introduction to Computer Science)
Alternately students may substitute another course with approval of the Department’s Director of Undergraduate Studies.
Please contact an ICS Student Affairs Office Counselor at ucounsel@uci.edu or (949) 824-5156.


Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







