https://futurehealth.ics.uci.edu/projects





UCI Institute for Future Health | Loneliness and College Students’ Health



























































Home
News

IFH
Healthcare


Events
Projects
Members

IFH Members


Key Disciplines
Collaborators
Publications
Resources
Videos
About Us
Join Us
Contact
 









PROJECTS
 









Home                    


/Projects 









All
Future Healthcare
Lifestyle Recommendation
Personal Health Models
Population Models
Translation and Practice
Health State Estimation






Loneliness and College Students’ Health
College students have been particularly negatively affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, due to social isolation causing loneliness. Targeted behavioral strategies…




MENTAL HEALTH NAVIGATOR
Traditionally, the regime of mental healthcare has followed an episodic psychotherapy model wherein patients seek care from a provider through…




COVID-19 LONG-HAULERS
Emerging data suggest that the effects of infection with SARS-CoV-2 are far-reaching, extending beyond those with severe acute disease. Specifically,…




Smart, Connected & Coordinated Maternal Care for Underserved Communities
UNITE (UNderserved communITiEs) presents a community engagement model that is smart, deploying ubiquitous monitoring and lifelogging; connected, bringing together a…




Internet of Cognitive Things for Personalized Healthcare
Quality of Experience (QoE) is a key metric for the successful delivery of end-user services for IoT-enabled applications. Achieving consistent…




Building Personal Chronicle
Personicle is a Mobile App which in its current form collects and processes the location, place, mobile device-specific measures like…




Building Personal model for Health Navigation
Population based healthcare models, while helpful in treating diseases caused by external stimulus, have proven not so effective for chronic…




FoodLogging Platform
Models are built using data. Most successful search, social media, and recommendation systems are built using personal models to provide…




Developing estimation techniques for determining health states
Current Healthcare systems are focused on diseases, not health. We adopt and build on the perspective that a body is…




IoT-based Wearables for Antepartum and Intrapartum Assessment in the Home Setting to Promote Fetal and Maternal Care
This project develops novel tools and leverage cutting-edge technologies in bioelectronics and data science to improve fetal and maternal care…




Digital Health for Future of Community-Centered Care
The adhoc nature of the healthcare system in the USA necessitates an organized and affordable platform to increase the reach…




A Monitoring-Intervention System for Dementia Caregivers Using Wearable IoT
Our program aims to build caregiving and stress-management skills in family caregivers of persons with dementia or mild cognitive impairment.…




Supporting adolescents struggling with emotional regulation using wearable technologies
Emotion regulation skills are critical for adaptation to stressful life events and are particularly important in adolescence, as it is…




Holistic Stress Reduction in the Era of COVID-19 through Multimodal Personal Chronicles in College Students
The COVID-19 pandemic has introduced a variety of challenging circumstances on college campuses, including the need for social distancing (resulting…



Remote social interaction monitoring to predict the risk of novel coronavirus infection in the UCI community
In this project, we will investigate how COVID-19 risk is shaped by social contacts and geographic activity spaces in the…



Food Computing
Food determines the quality of life. Food is not only a major source of energy and nutrients essential for health…




Policy driven Privacy Enhanced Technologies (PET) enforcement on Internet of Things (IoT) data flows
IoT service provision commonly relies on environmental or user data from other data  providers(e.g. network provider, water agency, building management).…



High-Dimensional Inference beyond Linear Models
This project concerns making proper statistical inference for high-dimensional parameters in three sets of widely used regression models: (i) generalized…



Using self-tracked data to design lightweight social support
People often struggle to receive the support they desire from friends and families around their health behavior goals. We are…



Optimizing Digital Interventions through Micro-Randomized Trials and Causal Modeling
The development in smartphone and wearable technology now makes it possible to deliver digital health interventions to individuals in real…



Understanding life events and transitions supported by fertility apps
Women’s health needs change over the course of life, transitioning between health stages and goals such as menarche, pregnancy or…



Examining and designing more useful mood tracking tools
People are widely adopting apps for tracking their moods and emotions. We aim to understand how and why these apps…



Examining a Multimodal Approach to Lowering the Burden of Food Journaling
People use personal journaling methods to develop better habits and make informed decisions about health and well-being. Activities such as…



The long-term impact of light intervention on sleep physiology and cognition in mild cognitive impairment
This application proposes to investigate the impact of a long-term lighting treatment on sleep physiology and sleep-dependent cognitive processes in…



Supporting Lifestyle Change in Obese Pregnant Mothers through Wearable Internet-of-Things
Pregnant women with obesity have indisputably increased risk for gestational diabetes mellitus, depression, miscarriage, and preterm birth, just to mention…




Preterm Birth Prevention in Everyday Settings
Preterm birth (PTB) is the most common cause of neonatal deaths. Due to the high rate of PTBs (15M/y), it…




Development of a Community-based TBI Treatment Completion Intervention Among Homeless Adults
Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease of poverty as it disproportionately affects impoverished communities. In the US, TB rates are unacceptably…



Improving Health and Nutrition of Indian Women with AIDS and their Children
The overall goal of this project is to enhance the physical and mental health of rural Indian women living with…



Prevention for Homeless At-Risk for HCV
Compared to the general population, homeless persons have a 26-fold increase in Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) prevalence, a diagnosis strongly…









News
Events
Projects
IFH Members
 

About IFH
Key disciplines
Collaborators
Work with us
Contact us
 

 
				info@futurehealth.uci.edu









				© Copyright 2021 UCI Institute for Future Health - All Rights Reserved
				































