https://www.cs.uci.edu/current-graduate-students




Current Graduate Students 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Current Graduate Students
Graduation Information

Request and fill out an Advancement to Candidacy form at least ONE quarter prior to completing your last course(s). Please refer to the Graduate Division site for more information.
For example:

For Summer graduation, students MUST submit advancement to candidacy in spring quarter
For Fall graduation, students MUST submit advancement to candidacy in summer


Enroll in your last course(s): COMP SCI 296P and 297P

Commencement
For commencement information and procedures please visit the following link:  http://commencement.uci.edu/
If you have questions about Diplomas or transcripts, please contact the Registrar office.
Graduate Student Forms
ICS Forms

Research Verification Form

Graduate Division Forms
Below is a partial list of Graduate Division forms. To view the complete list and download these forms, visit the Graduate Division website.

Advancement to Candidacy/Final Degree Report – to M.S. Degree Comp Exam
Leave of Absence (LOA) Petition

International Center Forms
Below is a partial list of International Center forms. To view the complete list and download these forms, visit the International Center website, or go directly the F-1 or J-1 student pages.

Address Update
CPT Application
OPT Application
Student Departure
Student Visa Document Request

Graduate Student Policies

Academic Honesty
Advancement to Candidacy (M.S.)
California Residency
Candidacy Committee’s Duties and Responsibilities
Candidacy Committee Membership
Comprehensive Exam/Phase II
Computer and Network Use
Copyright Infringement
Curricular Practical Training (CPT)
Ethical Use of Computing Resources
Filing Fee
Grading Standards
Graduate Student Review
In-Absentia Registration
Leave of Absence
Optional Practical Training (OPT)
Part-Time Enrollment
Previously Earned M.S. Degree
Residency Requirement
Summer Enrollment
Transfer of Academic Credit
UC Policy on Sexual Harassment


* Other policies important for students to know include the Non-Discrimination Policy Statements, Americans with Disabilities Act, and Jeanne Clery Act. It is recommended that students be familiar with the rules and regulations that govern students at UCI as outlined in the UCI General Catalogue.
Student Resources

Academic Calendar
Graduate Division
Financial Aid
Computing Support
Bookstore
Library



Latest news


UCI and BlackBerry Win NSF Convergence Accelerator Grant
October 12, 2022


BBC: “The Computer Errors From Outer Space” (Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi quoted)
October 12, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




