http://www.ics.uci.edu/grad/policies/GradPolicies_Grading.php



graduate student policies @ the bren school of information and computer sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Graduate / policies


Graduate Student Policies: Grading Standards

Grades are available from the Registrar’s Office (fees apply for copies of official transcripts; unofficial transcripts are free of charge) or through Student Access. It is the student’s responsibility to check grades at the end of each quarter.
Traditional grades (A, B, C, etc…) 
Students are expected to maintain a B average (this is an absolute requirement if on a fellowship—GSR, TA, GAANN, etc.). In order to receive graduation credit, students must earn a grade of B or better in all required courses, core courses and breadth courses. A grade of B- or below does not have to be improved and can remain on the transcript if that grade is not going to be counted toward graduation requirements.
Pass/No Pass
P/NP is for undergraduate students only. Graduate students must receive a letter grade to pass a course. Graduate students should not sign up for a course P/NP.
Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory
S/U is for graduate courses only and is considered to be a letter grade. Faculty can assign an S/U instead of an A, B, C, etc. Students are responsible for asking the instructor if they can receive the S/U option instead of an A, B, C, etc. at the beginning of the quarter. Please keep in mind that the S grade is equal to a B or better and the U grade is equal to a B- or below. A student who receives a U grade will have to repeat the course if it is going to count towards degree requirements.
Incomplete
The “I” grade is reserved for occasions when a student’s work is satisfactory but is incomplete because of circumstances beyond the student’s control, and when the student has been excused in advance from completing the quarter’s work. Students may ask the instructor to assign an “I,” but it may or may not be granted. If granted, a student has up to three quarters to complete the work. If the work is not completed and a grade has not been assigned after three quarters, the “I” will turn to an F. Once the work has been completed, the instructor must turn in a grade change report to change the “I” into a letter grade. The student should check Student Access often to confirm that the grade has been changed.
Graduate Division will not continue to approve employment for a student who has more than two Incompletes on their transcript.
No Report
NR means no grade was reported. This can be the result of a variety of reasons:


The faculty member did not turn the grades in on time
The faculty member does not recognize the student’s name on the class roster
The faculty member turned in the wrong grade
The course’s grade roster was unreadable


An NR will turn into an F after one quarter. Students who receive an NR should talk to their instructor immediately. The professor will need to complete a grade change report.




More Graduate

Contact
Prospective students
How to Apply

Academic year plan
Course Updates
Forms and Policies
Admissions FAQ
Funding
Housing
Computing support
Campus resources
Visit the Bren School
 








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











