http://www.ics.uci.edu/grad/policies/GradPolicies_EnrollmentStatus.php



graduate student policies @ the bren school of information and computer sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Graduate / policies


Graduate Student Policies: Enrollment Status

Filing Fee
Graduate students are eligible for one filing fee quarter during their graduate career. During the filing fee quarter, students pay one-half the registration fee and do not enroll in any classes.
The Filing Fee option applies only to students who have completed ALL requirements for a M.S. or Ph.D. degree except for official submission of a thesis or dissertation to the University Archives, or completion of the final formal examination (e.g., the comprehensive examination).This means that prior to the beginning of the "filing fee" quarter ALL other requirements for the degree must have been met by the student, including advancement to candidacy and the resolution of any NR or I grades. Consult the ICS Graduate Counselors for other policies and limitations related to the filing fee.
International visa restrictions may preclude filing fee status for students who are not citizens or permanent residents of the United States. International students should verify their eligibility for filing fee status via the International Center well in advance of need.
Students should note that there is a separate form when submitting a summer filing fee petition. Both the Filing Fee Petition and the Summer Filing Fee Petition can be found on the Graduate Division website here.
In-Absentia Registration
In absentia registration applies to full-time, regularly enrolled and registered students who have an academic need to conduct coursework or research related to their degree program outside of California.
More information can be found on the In-Absentia Registration Form on the Graduate Division website here.
Leave of Absence
All graduate students can petition for a leave of absence from the program for a period of up to, but no more than, three quarters total.
The LOA petition is available for download from the Graduate Division website here. Students should fill out the form well in advance to make sure it gets approved. The campus deadline is Friday of the third week of classes. However, ICS recommends that students submit the Leave of Absence petition by the registration deadline each quarter.
The leave must be approved by both the ICS Graduate Office and the Dean of Graduate Division, as well as the International Center for all international students. The Graduate Division will notify students via email once the leave has been approved or denied.
Part-Time Enrollment
Unless enrolled in an approved part-time master's degree program (as described in UCI’s General Catalogue), approval of part-time enrollment status may be granted only for reasons of occupation, family responsibilities or health. Eligibility for part-time study also depends on other factors, such as citizenship or residency, and fellowships. ICS Ph.D. are typically not eligible to apply.
The full guidelines to determine part-time eligibility, as well as instructions on how to submit the request, can be found on the Reduced Fee Part-Time Study Program petition, which can be downloaded from the Graduate Division website here.
The campus deadline to submit a Part-Time Study petition is noon on Wednesday of the third week of classes. However, ICS recommends that students submit the Part-Time petition by the registration deadline each quarter.
Summer Enrollment
Continuing graduate students generally do not need to enroll in Summer Session (international students on CPT may be required to enroll). However, students who will graduate during summer quarter MUST either be enrolled or on Filing Fee (if eligible). During the summer, graduating students will generally enroll in the minimum allowable units (two) of Individual Study or Thesis Supervision with their advisor. Graduating students who do not have an advisor should consult the ICS Graduate Counselors for assistance with summer enrollment.




More Graduate

Contact
Prospective students
How to Apply

Academic year plan
Course Updates
Forms and Policies
Admissions FAQ
Funding
Housing
Computing support
Campus resources
Visit the Bren School
 








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











