http://www.ics.uci.edu/grad/policies/GradPolicies_CandidacyCommittee.php



graduate student policies @ the bren school of information and computer sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Graduate / policies


Graduate Student Policies: Candidacy Committees

Candidacy Committee Duties and Responsibilities
The candidacy committee is charged with determining the fitness of the student to proceed with the doctoral dissertation through a formal candidacy examination. This examination should evaluate both general preparedness in the discipline, and specific competence to pursue the proposed dissertation topic.
In its deliberation, the committee ordinarily will review the student's academic record, preliminary examinations, evaluations by other faculty, and may conduct any other examination it thinks appropriate. The candidacy committee will also review an outline of the proposed dissertation project, and will determine by oral examination the student's competence in that area. When, by unanimous vote, the committee decides the student is qualified for the dissertation phase, it should recommend advancement to candidacy to the Graduate council via the Graduate Dean.
Following its formal appointment, the committee is free to adopt whatever procedures it thinks appropriate to conduct the qualifying examination for candidacy, subject to the rules of the program and those specified below. Administration of the qualifying examination must conform to the policies established by the Graduate Council.

The student must be given adequate notice of the content, form and time of the examination. The committee must meet to decide upon the procedures to be followed, and the student must be given an opportunity to comment upon the selected procedures.
Before voting upon its recommendation for or against candidacy, the committee as a whole shall meet with the student, and any member of the committee will have the right to pose appropriate questions to the student.
If it decides to do so, the committee may conduct part of the examination on an individual basis, e.g. the student may meet with each in turn. However, the committee must conclude its examination when convened with the student present.
Although the formal candidacy examination ordinarily is conducted in a single day, the committee may meet intermittently over a longer period, and may decide to reexamine the student on one or more topics after a specified interval.
When the committee meets to conduct the oral candidacy examination, it must report to the Graduate Council via the Graduate Dean within 30 days.
If the committee decides to reexamine the student at a later date or does not pass the student for any reason, this must be reported. The final vote and recommendation of the committee must be unanimous and unequivocal.

Upon completion of the candidacy examination, the results should be submitted to the UCI Graduate Division on the Report of the Ph.D. Candidacy Committee, Ph.D. Form I. This form must be signed by all committee members at the time the candidacy examination is concluded, and submitted even if the examination was failed.
If the unanimous recommendation of the committee is favorable, the $90 advancement to candidacy fee must be paid by the student to the campus Cashier's Office. This will validate the Ph.D. Form I, after which it should be submitted to the UCI Graduate Division. The signed and validated Ph.D. Form I serves as the application for advancement to candidacy.
The candidate and graduate counselor will be notified of formal advancement and the appointment of a doctoral committee.




More Graduate

Contact
Prospective students
How to Apply

Academic year plan
Course Updates
Forms and Policies
Admissions FAQ
Funding
Housing
Computing support
Campus resources
Visit the Bren School
 








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











