https://dgillen.ics.uci.edu/datasets-sim-4th-edition







Data Sets for Statistics in Medicine, 4th Edition – Daniel Gillen, PhD | Statistics




























Skip to content



 



Daniel Gillen, PhD | Statistics
University of California, Irvine








    Menu	
Home
News
Curriculum Vitae
Research
Lab Members
Publications
Teaching
Book












Data Sets for Statistics in Medicine, 4th Edition 






On this page, you will find the 17 data sets that were printed and/or discussed in the book, along with 20 additional data sets used at various places in the book or in our lectures at Emory University School of Medicine, Rady Children’s Hospital San Diego, San Diego State University, and UC Irvine. Data set descriptions and definitions for the first 17 are given in the book and for the additional 20 are given in PowerPoint slides, also accessible on this website. These data sets, in Excel format on this website, can be downloaded and transferred into whatever format is wanted. They may be used to perform the exercises given in the book or to practice using any appropriate statistical methods. The 20 additional data sets pose questions that can be used for practice in the PowerPoint descriptions.
–Dr. Robert.H. Riffenburghriffenbu@sdsu.edu.
–Dr. Daniel L. Gillendgillen@uci.edu




DB 01 Indicators of Prostate Biopsy Results
DB 02 Effectiveness of a Drug in Reducing Nausea After Gallbladder Removal
DB 03 Effect of Azithromycin on Serum Theophylline Levels of Patients with Emphysema
DB 04 Effect of Protease Inhibitors on Pulmonary Admissions
DB 05 Effect of Silicone Implants on Plasma Silicon
DB 06 Laser Removal of Tattoos as Related to Type of Ink Used
DB 07 Relation of Bone Density to Incidence of Femoral Neck Stress Fractures
DB 08 Comparing Two Types of Assays on the Effect of GAGs on the Bladder Surface
DB 09 Prediction of Growth Factors by Platelet Counts
DB 10 Tests of Recovery After Surgery on Hamstrings or Quadriceps
DB 11 Survival of Malarial Rats Treated with Hemoglobin, RBCs, or Placebo
DB 12 Identification of Risk Factors for Death After Carinal Resection
DB 13 Quality Test on Warfarin International Normalized Ratio Values
DB 14 Exhaled Nitric Oxide as an Indicator of Exercise-Induced Bronchoconstriction
DB 15 Comparison of Kidney Cooling Methods Used to Prolong Surgical Time Window
DB 16 Word Repetitions Among Cognitively Normal And Demented Patients 


DB 17 Retest Effects In Neuropsychological Testing 
DB 18 HSV2 in HIV Patients-1
DB 19 Prostate Cancer in HIV Patients-1
DB 20 Group A Strep Pneumonia Outbreak
DB 21 AIDS Mortality
DB 22 Erectile Dysfunction in HIV Patients
DB 23 HIV Patients with Syphilis
DB 24 Pediatric Snake Bites
DB 25 Adult Snake Bites
DB 26 Weight Estimation in the ER
DB 27 Snoring as a Sleep Problem
DB 28 Vulvar Cancer Survival
DB 29 Artificial Hip Placement
DB 30 Does Handling Worsen Injuries
DB 31 Compare OR Thermometer Types
DB 31long Compare OR Thermometer Types
DB 32 Laryngectomy Survival
DB 33 Positioning Patients in H&N RT
DB 34 Anesthetic Type v. Recovery Time
DB 35 Reliability in Reading X-Rays
DB 36 Disruptive Back Pain in Pilots
DB 37 Effect of Fasting on Cholesterol Measurement
DB PowerPoint guide













		Proudly powered by WordPress	




















































































































































































