https://www.ics.uci.edu/~yunanc



Yunan Chen MBBS, PhD, UCI








Yunan Chen
Associate Professor of Informatics
University of California, Irvine


Bio
Research
Students
Contact


					I am Associate Professor of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.
						
					My research interests lie at the intersection of human–computer interaction (HCI), computer supported cooperative work (CSCW), and health informatics.
						
					I received my Bachelor of Medicine degree (MBBS) from the China Medical University, and PhD from the iSchool at Drexel University.
					Currently, I serve as Director of the Undergraduate Minor Program in Health Informatics, Vice Chair of Undergraduate Affairs at Department of Informatics, and Co-Director for the Health and Information Lab.
						
					Download high resolution headshot here.
					
					Back


					Inspired by my own experience and training, I am interested in the interplay bewteen information, people, organization, and technology in healthcare. 
					I study how different stakeholders in healthcare access, document, share, and make sense of complex health data and information in their personal, professional, and social contexts. I am particularly interested in how these activities are mediated, communicated, coordinated and supported through technlogical tools from the sociotechnical perspective.

					
					Check out my Google Scholar page for recent and complete publications.
					
					Back


					Students are the best inspirations and most important part of my work, please support these awesome researchers by reading their papers and collaborating with them :)
					
					

Zhaoyuan (Nick) Su
Mayara Costa Figueiredo
Clara Marques Caldeira (now a Computing Innovation Fellow)
Xinning Gui (now assistant professor at the Penn State University)
Sunyoung Park (now assistant professor at the University Michigan)


Back


					Like many others, these days I am busy working from home with my two lovely co-workers, trying to figure out remote learning and teaching at the same time. The best way to contact me is at: yunanc [at] ics.uci.edu. 
					If you are interested in applying to study as a graduate student in the UC Irvine Department of Informatics, click here.

					If you have questions about the undergraduate programs at informatics department, you can contact the ICS student affairs office here.
					
					Back









