https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1312



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



April 2,  2018


2018 Carl Cotman Young Investigator Award Recipient Is a Rising Star


Statistics Ph.D. student Andrew Holbrook received the UCI MIND award for his exceptional work in theoretical mathematics, probability, statistics, and neuroscience and aging.

On Thursday, March 29, statistics Ph.D. student Andrew Holbrook received the 2018 Carl Cotman Young Investigator Award from UCI’s Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders (MIND). The award is given to a senior graduate student or junior postdoctoral student who has made a significant contribution in research on neurological disorders. Such contributions support MIND’s mission to enhance the quality of life for older adults by researching genetic, clinical and lifestyle factors that promote successful brain aging.
“I was thrilled and surprised when I found out I would be winning the award,” says Holbrook, whose graduate research has tied together neuroscience, statistics, and geometry. He goes on, “I was thrilled because Professor Cotman has been an important leader both here at UC Irvine and in the field in general.” Carl Cotman, founder of the institute that eventually became MIND, is a distinguished scholar in the area of brain aging and is world renowned for his work on assessing the mechanisms that lead to Alzheimer’s Disease. Cotman remains active in the field, researching the role of exercise in preventing Alzheimer’s Disease and cognitive decline.
Regarding his surprise at winning this distinguished award, Holbrook explains, “I was surprised because I’m just a statistician, and I’ve met so many talented graduate student neurobiologists studying memory and the aging brain here at UCI.”
Daniel Gillen, Professor and Chair of Statistics, would likely challenge Holbrook’s assessment that he’s “just a statistician.” In nominating Holbrook for the award, Gillen noted, “he is a rare breed in that he excels in theoretical mathematics, probability, statistics, and most importantly for this award, neuroscience and aging.” Holbrook served as a pre-doctoral trainee at MIND under Gillen’s supervision, helping design statistical models that leverage non-invasive, MRI-based biomarkers. The models were then used to track patients’ memory function as a function ofstructural brain changes through time.
Holbrook’s Ph.D. advisor, Associate Professor Babak Shahbaba, admits that he was initially “skeptical” that Holbrook would succeed in the field of statistics, given he had earned his degree in German and classical languages. “Holbrook proved me wrong,” says Shahbaba. “He has become by far one of the best Ph.D. students we have ever had in our program.”
In June, Holbrook says he will start a postdoctoral fellowship at UCLA with Biomathematics Professor Marc Suchard, adding, “I will be using genetic data to model the effects of viral hemorrhagic fevers, such as Lassa and Ebola.”
More generally, Gillen asserts that Holbrook “is a rising star that will be able to fuse much of the theory and methodology that will drive machine learning, data science and statistics for applications in neuroscience.”
— Shani Murray

2018 Carl Cotman Young Investigator Award Recipient Is a Rising Star


< Previous
 UCI Earns Top Ranking for CIS Program from College Factual
            
Next >
 Critical Mass Radio Show interview with Bryan Cunningham
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











