https://www.cs.uci.edu/cpo-magazine-a-legal-view-of-new-nist-quantum-resistant-algorithms-by-bryan-cunningham




CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022 
How to lose your company in a data breach:
Step 1: Suffer a data breach (which almost all companies have or will);Step 2:  Get sued by plaintiff’s lawyers waiting to pounce or, worse, an Attorney General or regulator;Step 3:  Be found not to have met the applicable “standard of care;”Step 4:  Pay up, and possibly lose your business.
“Standard of Care?”, you say. What’s that and why should I care? And where does NIST fit in?
“Standard of Care” is legalese for the minimum an organization must do to have acted “reasonably” in a lawsuit. In most data breach cases, if you are found not to have acted reasonably, e.g., by not employing sufficiently strong encryption, you likely will have to pay economic damages, sometimes reaching bet-the-company territory. Damages and penalties in a cyber breach case likely will reach $1 billion this decade.

But what is “reasonable” when it comes to meeting the applicable data-protection standard of care? Over my two decades practicing data protection and cybersecurity law, there has never been a universally accepted standard of care for data protection. One requirement that is widely accepted is that a company must use reasonably secure encryption for data in transit and at rest. Easy, just define “reasonably secure encryption” and we’ll know how to meet the standard of care and protect our companies and customers.
For most of this century, several encryption algorithms have been blessed by the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) for specific uses. Though without direct legal authority over private-sector entities, NIST approves encryption standards for much of the U.S. Government and NIST’s encryption standards have been adopted by much of the private sector. As such, most courts likely would find that compliance with NIST requirements meets the standard of care.
Read the full article on CPO Magazine: https://www.cpomagazine.com/cyber-security/a-legal-view-of-new-nist-quantum-resistant-algorithms/
« UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World ReportRegister Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




