https://www.ics.uci.edu/~bdonyana



Bryan Donyanavard











































Bryan Donyanavard
Assistant Professor, San Diego State University





















About Me





Research





Publications





Teaching





Contact Me





Download CV





Openings















Bryan Donyanavard
I am looking for students of all levels to supervise. If you are interested in systems research or development and either (a) a current or prospective student at SDSU, or (b) interested in a PhD through UC Irvine (computational science joint doctoral program) or UC San Diego (through the engineering joint doctoral program), send me an email with your resume and a bit about yourself and your interests. See here for more details.
I am currently an assistant professor in Computer Science at San Diego State University. 
                                        Prior to my current appointment I was a researcher at Ericsson in Stockholm with the IoT and cyber-physical systems group, with whom I continue to collaborate. I have been a researcher at the Center for Embedded and Cyber-Physical Systems (CECS) with the Dutt Research Group, and at the chair of integrated systems at the Technical University of Munich. 
					
I received my PhD in Computer Science under the supervision of Professor Nikil Dutt at the School of Informatics and Computer Science, University of California, Irvine. I received my MS and BS in Computer Engineering from the University of California, Santa Barbara. I have spent time as an engineer at National Security Technologies, Oracle, and Google.
My research revolves around self-aware computing systems: I work to enable resource-constrained systems to make intelligent self-management decisions at runtime, typically for high-perforance cyber-physical applications.











Education




Ph.D.
2019


Ph.D. in Computer Science
School of ICS, UC Irvine




M.S.2010


M.S. in Computer Engineering
School of Engineering, UC Santa Barbara




B.S.2008


B.S. in Computer Engineering
School of Engineering, UC Santa Barbara













