https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1320



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



April 10,  2018


Geoffrey C. Bowker Recognized as Donald Bren Professor



On April 4, 2018, staff, students, faculty and friends gathered to celebrate Geoffrey C. Bowker as he was formally recognized as Donald Bren Professor in Information and Computer Sciences. During opening remarks for the event, André van der Hoek, Chair of the Department of Informatics, referred to Bowker as “someone who reflects a lot on the state of the world and how we’ve gotten to where we are.” Such reflections can be found in his many publications, including Science on the Run (1994), Sorting Things Out: Classification and its Consequences with Susan Leigh Star (2000), and the award-winning Memory Practices in the Sciences (2008).

Bren Professor Geoffrey Bowker with ICS Dean Marios Papaefthymiou.

John S. Seberger, an informatics Ph.D. candidate, also made a few introductory remarks, although he admitted that trying to describe his relationship with Bowker in just a few minutes was like “trying to describe how you learn how to dance from Mick Jagger.” He added that through Bowker, “I have learned that the most important part of leading a successful academic career is to think forward, and by that I mean to be as generous an intellectual as possible.”
Bowker, who is also director of UCI’s EVoKE Lab and Studio, then entertained the audience with a thought-provoking lecture, “How the West Was Won by Data,” connecting trends and events dating back as early as the 18th century to the data-focused headlines of today’s newspapers. He concluded the discussion by explaining that “things that we think about as being just about the computer age and just about computers actually have a stronger, longer, deeper, richer history, and it’s only through analyzing that history, playing with that history and understanding it that we can develop the kind of politics and kind of society that we want moving forward.”

After a brief Q&A with the audience, Ted and Janice Smith Family Foundation Dean Marios C. Papaefthymiou presented Bowker with the professorship medal, officially recognizing him as one of only five faculty members in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences to receive the distinguished Bren Professorship title.

Bren Professors are collaborative and creative individuals leading research that results in major discoveries and transformations and making positive contributions to both UCI and the community. Bowker joins current Donald Bren Professors Michael J. Carey and Ramesh Jain and emeriti faculty members Judy Olson and Gary Olson.

Bowker says he was “delighted to be one of the distinguished professors at UC Irvine honored with the title Donald Bren Professorship. The funds will allow me to develop and expand work on ethics and data science and to mount projects in new forms of knowledge expression through funding for students, speakers and projects. Further, the professorship will directly benefit the Department of Informatics — embellishing its find international reputation.”

A video of the full event, including opening remarks, Bowker’s lecture, and the presentation of the medal, is available online.

— Shani Murray

Geoffrey C. Bowker Recognized as Donald Bren Professor
< Previous
 ICS Students Awarded National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowships
            
Next >
 Informatics Ph.D. Candidate Reyhaneh Jabbarvand Named Google Ph.D. Fellow
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











