https://www.ics.uci.edu/~mguindan
 





Michele Guindani @ UCLA – Professor, Department of Biostatistics, Jonathan and Karin Fielding School of Public Health





















































































 
Skip to content






Michele Guindani @ UCLA
Professor, Department of Biostatistics, Jonathan and Karin Fielding School of Public Health




Menu
    

Home
News
Research
Software and Datasets
People
My Calendar
    


Search for:


  Search
 








“Those who ignore statistics are condemned to reinvent it. Statistics is the science of learning from experience”


Bradley Efron (2006) 













An outline of my research interests, work, values and activities.















Neuroimaging Data


My research tries to unveil the determinants of human behaviors through the analysis of brain imaging data. The brain’s ability to respond to stimuli and external events changes between individuals and explains individuals’ behaviors and decision-making processes.









Integrative Microbiome Analysis


My research interrogates data at different scales to investigate the role of microbes and their impact on different eco-systems, such as ocean temperature, agricultural outcomes and remediation of pollution. 









Radiomics


One of my interests is in Cancer Radiomics, an emerging discipline promising to elucidate lesion phenotypes and tumor heterogeneity through patterns of enhancement, texture, morphology, and shape. 









Diversity and Inclusion


I am committed to fostering a diverse, equitable and inclusive doctoral experience for all our students. 









Bayesian Analysis


 Most of my methodological work is in Bayesian Analysis, and in particular,  Bayesian Nonparametrics . I believe in updating prior beliefs based on observed data and being the most flexible about it! 
😀 











Complex Data Modeling Research Network


A Network of Different Universities around the world to foster faculty and student interaction and exchange of ideas. 









Our Group


A group of students and faculty that meet every week to discuss and read about research. Get in touch if you want to participate.















How to pronounce my first name


By:                                        mguindani

Posted on October 7, 2020October 8, 2020 












Home 


  Research Interests (Keywords) 
Analysis of high-dimensional data, Neuroimaging data, Radiomics, Integrative genomics, and Microbiome.  Statistical decision-making under uncertainty, Multiple comparison problems, Clustering, Bayesian modeling, and Bayesian Nonparametrics.
  Current Positions
Professor, Department of Biostatistics, University of California, Los Angeles.Adjunct Professor, Department of Statistics, Rice University, Houston
  Short Bio
I am a full professor in the Department of Biostatistics at UCLA.I received my Ph.D. degree in Statistics from Università Bocconi (Milan, Italy) in 2005 under the supervision of Sonia Petrone (Department of Decision Sciences, Universita’ Bocconi, Italy) and Alan E. Gelfand (Department of Statistical Sciences, Duke University).  From 2005 to 2007, I was a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Biostatistics at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, working with Peter Mueller and Gary L. Rosner. I obtained my first faculty position as an Assistant Professor in Statistics in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of New Mexico (2007–2010). I then held a position as Assistant Professor (with the award of tenure) in the Department of Biostatistics at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center (2010-2016).  From 2016 to June 2022, I was a Professor in the Department of Statistics of the  Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine (UCI).
I am a Fellow of the American Statistical Association (ASA) and the International Society for Bayesian Analysis (ISBA).
  Professional Commitments 
Associate Editor, Biometrics (2016-present)Associated Editor, Econometrics and Statistics (2018-present)

I am also a member of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS) and the International Statistical Institute (ISI).
Previous Selected Commitments
Editor-in-Chief, Bayesian Analysis (2019-2021)Co-Editor, Bayesian Analysis (2016-2018)Associate Editor, Bayesian Analysis (2014-2016)Associate Editor, Computational Statistics and Data Analysis (2015-2018)Member, Board of Directors (2018-2020), International Society of Bayesian AnalysisCo-Chair, CFE-CMStatistics 2017 conference, London, UK, 16-18 December 2017Member of the Program Council, International Society of Bayesian Analysis (ISBA) (2014-2016)Program chair of the Scientific Committee of the ISBA 2016 World Meeting (Forte Village, Sardinia, Italy, June 13-17th, 2016)Program Chair of ISBA (2015)








Quick Links



google





pubmed





orcid





github





researchgate





springer





publons





linkedin




Office Hours On appointment @ Zoom
Please use the Doodle link on my calendar webpage to request an appointment.

Tweets by mguindani 




Contact Information 

 mguindani@ucla.edu
Department of Biostatistics
UCLA Fielding School of Public Health
650 Charles E. Young Drive S.
51-254 CHS
Los Angeles, CA 90095


 


                    	Copyright ©  2022 Michele Guindani @ UCLA 



  















































































































































































































































