http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/degrees/degree_cse.php



undergraduate degree in computer science and engineering @ the bren school of information and computer sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Undergraduate / Degrees


Undergraduate degree in Computer Science and Engineering

DEGREES AVAILABLE: Major Offered jointly with The Henry Samueli School of Engineering 
The Computer Science and Engineering major gives students access to multidisciplinary problems with a focus on total systems engineering.
Students will learn the computer science principles that are critical to development of software, hardware and networking of computer systems.
From that background, engineering concepts and methods are added to give students exposure to circuit design, network design and digital signal processing.
Elements of engineering practice include the systems view, manufacturing and economic issues, and multi-disciplinary engineering applications.
This program is designed to provide students with the fundamentals of computer science, both hardware and software, and the application of engineering concepts, techniques and methods to both computer systems engineering and software system design.
 › Is Computer Science and Engineering for me? › What do I take? › What can I do with this degree? › Still not sure? 

Is Computer Science and Engineering for me?
Graduates of the program will:

establish a productive Computer Science and Engineering career in industry, government, or academia;
engage in professional practice of computer systems engineering and software systems engineering;
promote the development of innovative systems and solutions using hardware and software integration;
promote design, research, and implementation of products and services in the field of Computer Science and Engineering through strong communication, leadership, and entrepreneurial skills.

For more information on CSE goals and objectives see http://plaza.eng.uci.edu/degree-program/cse/mission.
Annual student enrollment and graduation data can be found at: http://www.oir.uci.edu/student-data.html. Please note that annual student enrollment and graduation data for CSE is the sum of the data under both Engineering and Information and Computer Science.
↑ Back to top

What do I take?
CSE Sample 4 Year Plan
For a full listing of the degree requirements, see the General Catalogue.
To better help students plan their upcoming quarters, a list of approved science elective courses* for satisfying the CSE major's science elective requirement has been made available.
*The science elective must be taken at UCI if the student is currently enrolled at UCI.
Students are encouraged to consult an academic advisor in the Bren School of ICS to determine the coursework designed to meet their educational goals.
↑ Back to top

What can I do with this degree?
Computer Science and Engineering majors are involved in building the hardware infrastructure – computers, networks, embedded devices, as well as operating systems, compilers and networking software.
The focus is on cooperation between hardware and software to yield the highest performance.
Examples of such problem areas would be in traffic management, flight control, earthquake monitoring, automotive control and smart homes.
Many students also go on to graduate school, continuing their studies, conducting research, and earning graduate degrees in computer engineering, computer science, information science, management or law.
↑Back to top

Still not sure?

Prospective and current UCI students interested in learning more about the Bren School’s degree options are encouraged to contact us at
ucounsel@uci.edu.
 
↑Back to top




More Undergraduate

Contact
News and Updates
Academic advising
Course updates
Academic year plan
ICS majors

GDIM FAQ page
Double major
2nd baccalaureate


ICS minors
Newly Admitted to ICS
Petitions & Forms
Policies

Academic honesty
Academic standing
Add, drop, & change options
Change of Major
Concurrent Enrollment
Coursework outside UCI
CS 199 / IN4MATX 199
Grade policy
ICS Credit by Exam
Laptop & computer use
Withdrawal/Readmission
ICS 192 Enrollment/CPT&OPT


Graduation
ICS student life
ICS Honors Program
Computing support
Title IX Resources









Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











