https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1353



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



May 21,  2018


Professor Ruberg Honored for Excellence in Fostering Undergraduate Research



On Saturday, May 19, the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP) held its annual symposium, where undergraduates present the results of their research or creative activities in a professional setting. At the symposium, Informatics Professor Bonnie Ruberg was awarded the 2018 Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Fostering Undergraduate Research for the Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences (ICS). The award recognized her outstanding work in mentoring undergraduate students engaged in research.

“I was honored to learn that I was the recipient,” says Ruberg, who joined the Department of Informatics in 2017. “I’m still pretty new here at UC Irvine, and it was great to hear that the work I’ve been doing with undergraduates has already begun to make an impact.”
The Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Research dates back to 1997, when it was started to highlight the accomplishments — and faculty support — of such research. Each year, one faculty member and one student receive the award; you can view the list of all previous winners online. This year, the student award for ICS went to Informatics student Gustavo Figueroa.
The goal of UROP is to integrate undergraduate students into the university’s research culture by providing opportunities for faculty and students to work together.
“Working with undergraduates is one of the most exciting and rewarding parts of my job as a professor,” says Ruberg. “I love meeting students who are already so passionate about their interests, and helping them to explore their ideas. UC Irvine is a big university, and any time I can support an individual student in their intellectual journey, I really value that opportunity.”
— Shani Murray

Professor Ruberg Honored for Excellence in Fostering Undergraduate Research


< Previous
 Game Developers — This Is Your Week!


            
Next >
 Retirement Reception for Informatics Professor David G. Kay Reveals Reach of His ‘Teaching Tree’
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











