https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=2177



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



June 22,  2022


UCI Researchers Aim to Diversify Clinical Research Participation with $3.7M NIH Grant


What is the best way to recruit participants to join a clinical studies registry, and can such registries help better diversify clinical research samples? These are two critical questions that UCI researchers are tackling with a new National Institutes of Health (NIH) grant, “Recruiting and Retaining Participants from Disadvantaged Neighborhoods in Registries.” The work will be led by Joshua Grill, professor of psychiatry and human behavior in UCI’s School of Medicine (SOM) and of neurobiology and behavior in UCI’s School of Biological Sciences (Bio Sci), and by Daniel Gillen, Chancellor’s Professor and chair of the Statistics Department in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS).

The multidisciplinary team will focus in particular on participant recruitment and retainment for Alzheimer’s disease and related disorders (ADRD) research. More than 6 million Americans are living with Alzheimer’s, and one in three seniors dies with Alzheimer’s or another dementia. Yet ADRD clinical research faces delays and risks to validity when populations at increased risk for disease are excluded from studies. Grill and Gillen will examine what role recruitment registries for ADRD research can play in overcoming exclusions to improve research outcomes.
Joshua Grill and Daniel Gillen.
Recruitment RegistriesAs noted in the grant abstract, recruitment registries can help accelerate participant accrual in ADRD research. These repositories store the names of potentially eligible individuals who have already consented to being contacted about studies, but little research has been done surrounding registry design, conduct and effectiveness in aiding ADRD research recruitment.
“We’re particularly excited about the team science approach in this grant, which includes experts in statistical methods, Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias, and social determinants of health and health disparities,” says Grill, who serves as director of UCI’s Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders (UCI MIND). Grill established the UCI Consent-to-Contact (C2C) registry, which matches adults in Orange County with clinical research studies at UCI.
“There is increased recognition of the need for a ‘science of recruitment and retention,’” says Grill. “This new award from the NIH National Institute on Aging will allow us to accelerate this science through innovative but rigorous studies of means to get people from diverse neighborhoods into our local C2C registry and keep them in it until they can be enrolled in a study.”
Novel Statistical MethodsPart of this effort to increase diversity in clinical ADRD trial participation will be the development of novel statistical methods to implement and estimate the effects of new targeted recruitment strategies. This is where Gillen and his Ph.D. students in ICS come into play.
“We have the opportunity to identify novel strategies for increasing diversity in research participation while developing state-of-the-art statistical methods that are necessary to validly assess our approaches,” explains Gillen, who directs the Data Management and Statistics Core at the UCI Alzheimer’s Research Disease Center (ADRC). “Successful achievement of our study goals requires the development of novel statistical methodology that builds on our group’s past accomplishments in interrupted time series models and corrections for non-random sampling designs.”
With $3.7 million in funding over the next five years, this research aims to quantify the bias associated with these recruitment tools and develop methodology for addressing such bias. “This work represents the best of collaborative research for me,” says Gillen. “Motivated by important research questions in recruitment science, we will be able to extrapolate the results from our local C2C registry to the broader U.S. population.”
— Shani Murray

UCI Researchers Aim to Diversify Clinical Research Participation with $3.7M NIH Grant
< Previous
 Computer Science Researchers Collaborating on $1.2M NSF Grant to Study Geometric Graphs
            
Next >
 2022 Butterworth Product Development Competition: Back in Full Swing!
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











