https://www.stat.uci.edu/m-s-ph-d-in-statistics




M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics

* Graduate application deadline is Dec. 15, submit your online application now! *

Individuals from a variety of backgrounds can make significant contributions to the field of statistics as long as they have sufficient background in statistics, mathematics, and computing.
Undergraduate preparation in statistics, mathematics, and computing should include multivariate calculus (the equivalent of UCI courses Mathematics 2A-B, 2D-E), linear algebra (121A), elementary analysis (140A-B), introductory probability and statistics (Statistics 120A-B-C), and basic computing (ICS 21).
For students with undergraduate majors outside of mathematics and statistics, it is possible to make up one or two missing courses during the first year in the program.
The UCI General Catalogue is the official guide to all degree and graduation requirements. For previous calendar years, please see here.

Current Degree Requirements
ICS Graduate Handbook



Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







