https://www.ics.uci.edu/~wjohnson









Wesley Johnson's HOME PAGE










Home Page for Professor Wesley O. Johnson
Department of
Statistics
University of
California, Irvine







My
  bachelor's degree was in Mathematics from the University
  of Washington, Seattle
  in 1972, I received a Master's Degree in Statistics from the California
State University
  as Hayward in 1974, and a Ph.D. in Statistics
  with a minor in Mathematics from the University
  of Minnesota, Minneapolis
  in 1979. I joined the Department of
  Statistics at UC Davis in 1979 and was chair of the graduate group in Epidemiology at
  UCD from 1997 to 2002. I joined the Department of Statistics at UC Irvine in
  2005.  I retired from from teaching at UCI in 2016, which leaves me with time
  to write books and papers as if I were on a permanent sabbatical, which is wonderful.

  My research interests are eclectic. I am mainly interested in developing
  Bayesian statistical methods for biostatistical and epidemiologic applications.
  I am currently involved with collaborative efforts to develop Bayesian
  nonparametric and semi-parametric methods in survival analysis, longitudinal
  analysis and joint modeling of survival and longitudinal data.  I also
  work on diagnostic screening protocols and methodology when no gold standard
  test is available.  This includes ROC curve estimation, development of
  models and methods for longitudinal screening data including change-point
  models that account for disease occurrence during the study, and general
  methods for combining information to improve diagnosis.  I have also
  been involved with the development of risk analysis models, sample size
  determinations in the context of risk assessment and models, longitudinal and
  spatial methods for predicting global foot and mouth disease, and for the
  analysis of hormone profile data.  I also have a general interest and
  expertise in the areas of regression diagnostics, prediction, multivariate analysis, models for correlated binary data, asymptotics and Markov chain Monte Carlo methods. I am a
  fellow of IMS, ASA and RSS.  My curriculum vitae gives more details. 

  At UCI, I have taught courses on longitudinal data analysis (STA 212),  undergraduate
  probability (STA 120A), masters
  level probability and statistical theory  (STA 200ABC), Multivariate
  Analysis (STA 240), Introductory Bayesian Ideas and Data Analysis (STA205),
  Bayesian Theory, Methods and Data analsysis (STA 225), Bayesian
  Nonparametrics (STA 226) and Ph.D. level Probability and Mathematical
  Statistics (220AB).

  I have written a Bayesian book with my friends Adam Branscum, Ron Christensen
  and Tim Hanson. The book is intended for a broad audience of graduate
  students in all areas of science, including Statistics. You can find
  information about the book at http://www.ics.uci.edu/~wjohnson/BIDA/BIDABook.html.


  My permanent home in Winters and my pals, the Taj Mahal, and Crete, 
      



and Santorini (Thira)
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wesley O.
Johnson / wjohnson@uci.edu 















