https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/spotlight/spotlight_bob_newcomb


In Memoriam – Robert L. Newcomb @ The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
















ABOUT

About the School
Dean's Welcome
Facts and Figures
Donald Bren Hall
Visit the Bren School
Equity & Diversity
Contact Us



 DEPARTMENTS 

Computer Science
Informatics
Statistics



 RESEARCH 

Research Areas
Research Centers
Research Highlights



 STUDENTS 

Graduate ▸ 

Prospective Students
How to Apply
Programs of Study
Academic Year Plan
Forms
Policies
Funding & Housing
Computing Support
Campus Resources
Visit the Bren School
Graduate Student Handbook
Contact


Undergraduate ▸ 

Contact
Academic Advising
Course Updates
Academic Year Plan
Petitions
ICS Majors
ICS Minors
Policies: Academic Integrity
Policies: Academic Standing
Policies: Add, drop, & change options
Policies: Coursework outside UCI
Policies: Grade policy
Policies: Laptop & computer use
Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission
Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses
Graduation
ICS Student Life
Upcoming Events
Computing Support


Scholarships & Fellowships
Student Jobs & Internships



PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Graduate Students



NEWS & EVENTS

Newsroom
Events
Press Releases
Annual Reports
Student Blogs



GET INVOLVED

Make a Gift
Alumni
Leadership Council
Corporate Partners
Sponsor Projects
Product Development Competition








Bren school home / Community / News / Spotlights


In Memoriam – Robert L. Newcomb


UC Irvine Center for Statistical Consulting founding director and social sciences senior lecturer was a 45-year member of the UCI community



Robert “Bob” L. Newcomb, founding director of the UC Irvine Center for
Statistical Consulting and 45-year member of the UCI community, passed away on
July 10 at the age of 81. 
Newcomb received his Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of California
at Santa Barbara. He joined the UC Irvine faculty in 1969 as a lecturer in
social sciences, a position he held until his retirement in 2006. During that
period, he served terms as acting associate dean of both undergraduate and graduate
studies in social sciences. Throughout his more than four decades of service to
UC Irvine, he made an immeasurable impact on students and faculty through his teaching,
mentorship and statistical research support. 
As a teacher, he introduced the field of statistics to thousands of students.
His effectiveness in the classroom, passion for learning and dedication to
mentoring inspired and guided generations of students who became leaders in
academics and industry. In 1980, he won the UCI Alumni Association's
Distinguished Teaching Award for his work in social sciences and education.
In 1996, Newcomb founded the UCI Center for Statistical Consulting, serving
as director until 2011. From 2000-10, he also served as director of the
Biostatistics and Informatics Core of UCI's National Institutes of
Health-funded General Clinical Research Center. In 2010, he transitioned to the
role of director of the Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Research Design Unit
within UCI’s Institute for Clinical and Translational Science (ICTS). 
He played a critical role in forming the Department of Statistics in 2002,
which now houses the Center for Statistical Consulting and supports Newcomb’s
student-focused vision of statistical instruction and career readiness training.
In 2012, the department established an annual lecture and graduate fellowship in
his honor. 
Although he officially retired in 2006, Newcomb’s dedication to his
students, UCI and the community continued. In retirement, he served as director
of ICTS’s biostatistics unit. He established the Orange County/Long Beach
Chapter of the American Statistical Association and served as its founding president.
He also continued to teach statistics courses at UCI, completing his last
course in the spring quarter of 2014 several weeks before his passing. 
Newcomb’s lifelong dedication to supporting UCI student athletes is
legendary. He founded the UC Irvine men's volleyball program in 1970 and held
the title of head coach through 1975. He was commissioner of the Southern
California Intercollegiate Volleyball Association, later renamed the Western
Intercollegiate Volleyball Association, from 1975-92. He wrote the initial
proposal and lobbied for the establishment of the Men's Collegiate Volleyball
Grants Program in 1988. He served on the NCAA Men's Volleyball Championship
Committee from 1989-92, holding the title of chair in 1990, while continuing to
mentor student-athletes. 
He is survived by his wife, Betty, daughters Jhyl Mumford and Dale Marcikic,
son Scott Newcomb, brother David Newcomb, and many loving grandchildren,
relatives, friends, colleagues and students. He will be remembered for his
exceptional warmth, collegiality, vision and dedication to generating new
knowledge that improves the lives of people throughout the world.

In lieu of flowers, please send donations to:

The Robert L. Newcomb Graduate Fellowship Fund

The Robert Newcomb Student Award for Men’s Volleyball

Also see:

Orange County Register obituary for Bob Newcomb

Tribute to Bob Newcomb at UCIrvineSports.com

Robert Newcomb Tribute Website



More community

Alumni
Parents
Leadership Council
News
Give a gift

Quick Links 
- select a page -
Computing support
CS Seminar Series
Employment
Facilities
Find faculty and staff
Giving to the Bren School
Graduate degrees
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Project ICS
Prospective undergraduates
Safety procedures
Undergraduate degrees

       

Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet




