https://www.ics.uci.edu/~ihler


Alexander Ihler







Alexander Ihler 
Professor
Information & Computer Science, UC Irvine

  Bren Hall 4066
  ph: 949-824-3645
  fx: 949-824-4056
  ihler (at) ics.uci.edu /
  ihler (at) alum.mit.edu




Home 
Publications 
Code 
Recent Classes
  CS178, ML & Data Mining 
  ... archive of older offerings 

Group Wiki 

Bio and 

CV 

Personal 

Photos 


Piano


     

I work in artificial intelligence and machine learning, focusing on statistical methods
for learning from data and on approximate inference techniques for graphical models.  Applications of
my work include data mining and information fusion in sensor networks, computer vision and image processing, 
and computational biology.
   

   Research themes  


Graphical models are used to organize and structure probability distributions over large systems, and enable
efficient approximate or exact reasoning. 
My group balances developing theoretical and algorithmic advances with applications
to the real-world systems of our collaborators.
Algorithms. One of our main focuses is on finding maxima or computing probabilities using variational
methods, including the family of belief propagation (BP) message-passing algorithms.  
Our contributions include analyzing the convergence and accuracy properties
of BP, developing new BP-like bounds, extending BP techniques to continuous valued systems, improving
the efficiency of "adaptive" or incremental inference, and extending variational algorithms to ``mixed''
inference tasks such as marginal MAP and decision making problems, including influence diagrams (or decision
networks) and distributed team decision problems.
Applications. We have applied our algorithms to a wide variety of problems, including tracking
and understanding data from sensor networks,
efficient representations for large text corpora, computer vision and image processing, and
gene expression data in biology.

   

  
News  


We are organizing a tutorial on combinatorial optimization in graphical models at IJCAI 2016 (Saturday, July 10th)

I am co-program chair (with Dominik Janzing) of this year's Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI) conference, to be held June 25-29 in New Jersey.

Our solver ("ai") won first place in five categories of UAI's 2014 Approximate Inference Challenge.  Congratulations also to Rina Dechter's group ("daoopt"), which won several other categories.

We co-organized the NIPS'13 workshop, "Crowdsourcing: Theory, Algorithms and Applications".

I received an NSF CAREER award, "Estimation and Decisions in Graphical Models" (IIS-1254071)

   

  
Students (group page)  


Current:

Wei Ping
Nick Gallo
Qi Lou
Yumeng Tao
Zach Destefano
Noble Kennamer




Graduated:


David Keator (PhD, 2015)
Sholeh Forouzan (PhD, 2015)
Qiang Liu (PhD, 2014)

Andrew Frank (PhD, 2013)
Ozgur Sumer (PhD, 2012)
Jonathan Hutchins (PhD, 2010)
Sidharth Shekhar (MS, 2009)
Priya Venkateshan (MS, 2011)




   

   Other links  



UCI's Center for Machine Learning and our AI/ML seminar series
UCI Machine Learning Dataset Repository

   

  
Funding Acknowledgements  


We gratefully acknowledge support for our current and recent research from 
the National Science Foundation,
DARPA, 
Microsoft Research, 
the National Institute of Health, 
NIAMS, 
and UCI's Center for Complex Biological Systems.

   

