http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kibler/H23syllabus.html





Honors ICS 23 


Honors Data Structures and Algorithms
A collaborative problem-solving approach

Professor: Dennis Kibler kibler@ics.uci.edu
Class Meetings: 10-10:50 Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays (ET204)
	Office Hours: 11-12 Mondays,Wednesdays (414 CS)
	Teaching Assistant: Li Zhang
Discussion: 11:30-12:50 Mondays, Wednesdays (CS193)



Course Goals
Using the Java language students will learn the properties and implementation details of the fundamental data
structures (arrays, lists, queues, stacks, dictionaries, hashtables, trees, graphs) that often are at the heart
of any program. Students will also learn basic problem solving methods, such as divide and conquer, separate and
conquer, dynamic programming, greedy algorithms, tree and search algorithms as well as some useful applications.
As part of the coding assigments, students will be expected to analyse their code and follow good object-oriented
design. 

Grading
There will be approximately 8 programming assignments two quizzes and a final. The coding assignments will be
in Java. Your lowest homework score will be dropped. Roughly, the exams and homeworks will count equally. The final
exam will be based on the text, lecture notes, and homeworks. Each chapter ends with a summary. Be sure that you
know every concept discussed in the summary. The fastest way to get questions answered is to email either the TA
or me. Answers of general interest will be posted on the bulletin board (ics.H23). You may also use the bulletin
board to ask classmates for appropriate help. Any form of inappropriate help will result in an F grade in the class
and a letter in your file. 

Text
Text Data Structures and Problem Solving using Java by Mark Allen Weiss
Recommended: UP to speed in Swing by Steven Gutz 

Java Language Notes
Lecture notes for the Java Language are available on-line Java
Notes . Please tell me if you find any errors or misrepresentations. 

Tests
Quiz: April 23
Quiz: May 21  12:00- 1:00
Final: June 11 10:30am-12:30, same room as lecture


Tentative schedule.

Week 1 GUI interfaces and Object Oriented Design
Telephone Address book
	Instructor grading program
	Hwk:Banking: deposits, withdrawals, opening, closing
	Week 2 O notation and Fundamental Data Structures via Collections
Collections: Lists, Trees, HashTables
	Hwk: Lexicon with Gui
	Week 3 Problem Solving I: Divide and Conquer
Dynamic Programming: fibonacci, longest common subsequece, matrix multiplication 
	Hwk: Needleman-Wunsch
	Week 4 Problem Solving II: Backtracking, Local Improvement
Heuristic search, boolean satisifiability, np-completeness
	Hwk: N-queens (exhaustive and heuristic)
	Week 5 Linked Lists Implementation Ch. 16
singly, doubly, circular, sorted
	Hwk: Traveling Salesman Problem (arrays and lists)
	Week 6 Hash Tables Ch. 19
hash functions, collisions, linear and quadratic probing
	Midterm!
	Week 7 Queue, Dequeues, Priority Queues Ch. 15, 20
heap, priority queue, heapsort
	Hwk: Bounded priority queue
	Week 8 Balanced Trees Ch. 13
AVL trees, red-black trees, AA-trees, B-trees
	Hwk: build, evaluate, and display expression trees
	Week 9 Tree Search
Depth first, breadth first, iterative deepening
	Hwk: Evaluation of efficiency
	Week 10 Graphs Ch. 14
Adjacency representation, Kruskal's, Prim's and Dijsktra's algorithm, topological sorting
	Hwk: You gotta be kidding
	


Homework Details http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kibler/H23Homeworks.htm


