http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kibler/JavaTexts.html
 

  Java Texts  


 The Java Programming Language  by Ken Arnold, James
   Gosling and David Holmes. 3rd Edition.
     Covers fundamentals of language, but not important packages. Accurate
description of language. Where I go when I need a deeper understanding
of some feature of the language. Covers Collections. This is the book I recommend.
     Java: An Introduction to Computer Science and Programming 
by Walter Savitch.
 Straightforward and complete introduction to language that can be used by
people with no programming experience.
Students like this text.
     Introduction to Programming Using Java: An Object-Oriented 
approach   by David Arnold  and David Weiss. 
Introduction to 
object-oriented programming using Java. Meant as a first CS course text.
I liked it.
    Up to Speed with Swing by  Steven Gutz. Assumes you know Java
and introduces basic Swing classes. Readable.
     Computing Concepts using Java Essentials  by Cay Horstmann.
    Covers Java for the beginning programming student. Used in 1A.
    Core Java 2nd Ed  by Cay Horstmann and Gary Cornell
     language + applets, user-interface, delegation event-model (JDK 1.1),
     and new graphical widgets (e.g. scrollpane).
     Java in a Nutshell (2nd Edition) (JDK 1.1)
    A complete  brief description of the language plus a list of the
  methods and classes in the JDK 1.1 packages. JDK 1.0 had 8 packages
and JDK 1.1 has 23. Moreover the old packages have been extended.
These new packages cover important extensions such
as JavaBeans, reflections, serialization, JAR, and a new delegation
event-model which replaces the old model.
     Thinking in Java  by Bruce Eckel. 
This text covers
 JDK 1.1 with some information about JDK 1.2.  It is meant
for the serious programmer who
has already programmed in some language, preferably C++. I like this
text a lot. He provides practical advice. The text covers  the
topics in Java in a Nutshell in greater depth.
    Graphic Java 1.1: Mastering the AWT  2nd Ed.
    thorough discussion of components, lightweight components, custom
  components. More than you want  to know. Good reference.
    Symantic Visual Café Sourcebook  by Cary Jardin and Pam
 Dixon. A complete guide to Creating Java Applets and applications with
 Visual Café . Note: only similar to Visual Cafe Pro.
    For an up-to-date discussion of the Java and its use, see  
 http://www.javasoft.com/.
    Any book that covers JDK1.1 that you can learn from. Everyone
  learns differently.
 


