https://www.cs.uci.edu/professor-tsudiks-upcoming-security-focused-keynote-talks




Professor Tsudik’s Upcoming Security-Focused Keynote Talks 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Professor Tsudik’s Upcoming Security-Focused Keynote Talks
October 2, 2018 Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Gene Tsudik is giving two keynote talks this month. The first is Oct. 3 at the 5th International Workshop on Genome Privacy and Security (GenoPri) in Basel, Switzerland. In his invited talk, “Security in Personal Genomics: Lest We Forget,” he will argue that “genomic security must be taken seriously.” He will discuss the problem space, identify the stakeholders, discuss assumptions about such stakeholders, and outline both possible approaches and future research opportunities. The main goal of the work, which is a collaboration with Xinyi Ding of Southern Methodist University, is to “highlight the importance of genomic security as a research topic in its own right.”

The second talk, “Coping with Tensions between Security and Safety in Simple IoT/CPS Devices,” is Oct. 19 at the ACM Workshop on Cyber-Physical Systems Security & Privacy (CPS-SPC) in Toronto. Tsudik will discuss remote attestation, a means of malware detection, especially for low-end embedded devices. He will identify issues that arise in “reconciling requirements of safety-critical operation with those of secure remote attestation” and will review some mitigation techniques, including “periodic self-measurements as well as interruptible attestation modality that involves shuffled memory traversals and various memory locking mechanisms.”
— Shani Murray
« The Fight Over Net Neutrality Stretches from California to Washington, D.C.Distinguished Professor Alex Nicolau Elected into Academia Europaea »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




