https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-news-uci-joins-in-launch-of-new-nsf-funded-data-science-and-climate-initiative




UCI News: “UCI joins in launch of new NSF-funded data science and climate initiative” 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI News: “UCI joins in launch of new NSF-funded data science and climate initiative”
September 12, 2018 Investigators from UCI’s Henry Samueli School of Engineering, Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Science, and School of Physical Sciences will work together in a new initiative, funded by the National Science Foundation, to perfect the use of data science in climate studies. The Transdisciplinary Research in Principles of Data Science plus Climate project includes collaborators from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Chicago.

The TRIPODS+X research team will jointly pursue the creation of new methodologies in machine learning and network estimation to develop a better understanding of the Earth’s climate system and its regional hydrologic impacts. “Classical tools fail to account for complex dependence structures and higher-order interactions among features, and for nonstationary dynamics,” said UCI co-investigator Efi Foufoula-Georgiou, Distinguished Professor of civil & environmental engineering. “Because of this, important aspects of climate systems are poorly understood, limiting our ability to improve the accuracy of regional forecasts. We believe that data science has a lot to offer in exploring climate data and model outputs to understand and attribute climate modes of variability and change to develop better predictive models.”
Foufoula-Georgiou is joined by UCI colleagues Padhraic Smyth, Chancellor’s Professor, computer science, and director of UCI’s Data Science Initiative; and James Randerson, the Ralph J. Cicerone chair and Chancellor’s Professor of Earth system science. The inspiration for this collaboration came from a recent project conducted by Foufoula-Georgiou, Randerson and other UCI scientists in which a new interhemispheric teleconnection was discovered, allowing climatologists to predict winter rainfall in the Southeastern United States by monitoring sea surface temperatures near New Zealand during the summer. The discovery was made through exhaustive analysis of historic climate data. Foufoula-Georgiou said she thinks there are many other globe-spanning connections yet to be found, and that novel data science tools that have become available in recent years will provide a significant boost to their efforts. “It is vitally important that we fully understand the factors that determine regional climate variability,” she said. “The implications are clear for the economy, security and environmental sustainability for many regions around the world.”
— From UCI News
« Professor Baldi Publishes Paper in Gastroenterology on Automating ColonoscopiesForbes: “Don’t Trust Artificial Intelligence? Time To Open The AI ‘Black Box'” (Sameer Singh quoted) »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




