https://www.cs.uci.edu/professors-burtsev-and-tsudik-awarded-1m-to-secure-large-scale-scientific-cloud-computing




Professors Burtsev and Tsudik Awarded $1M to Secure Large-Scale Scientific Cloud Computing 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Professors Burtsev and Tsudik Awarded $1M to Secure Large-Scale Scientific Cloud Computing
August 30, 2018 Researchers in many fields increasingly use cloud computing and storage for computationally intensive scientific tasks. However, how secure is data stored in public and private clouds? “Not secure enough,” according to Computer Science Professors Anton Burtsev and Gene Tsudik. Fortunately, the two were recently awarded a $1 million grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for their proposal: “Horizon: Secure Large-Scale Scientific Cloud Computing.” The Horizon project will be a part of the NSF Cybersecurity Innovation for Cyberinfrastructure (CICI) program created to “develop, deploy and integrate security solutions that benefit the scientific community by ensuring the integrity, resilience and reliability of the end-to-end scientific workflow.”

The focus of the proposed research is a novel cloud architecture called Horizon. It aims to provide data and computation security through strong isolation on end-hosts, fine-grained isolation in the cloud network and cloud-wide information flow control. As noted in the grant proposal, “Horizon aims to provide a practical foundation for developing secure cloud infrastructure suitable for large-scale research workflows that require both speed and security.” Burtsev and Tsudik plan to develop it using entirely open-source components and to make it freely available to scientists in both academia and industry.
— Shani Murray
« Professor Harris Presents Tool to Detect Social Engineering Attacks at Black Hat USATsudik to Deliver Keynote at ESORICS 2018 »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




