https://www.cs.uci.edu/professor-singh-awarded-two-nsf-grants-to-advance-machine-learning




Professor Singh Awarded Two NSF Grants to Advance Machine Learning 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Professor Singh Awarded Two NSF Grants to Advance Machine Learning
August 22, 2018 Assistant Professor of Computer Science Sameer Singh has been awarded two separate National Science Foundation (NSF) grants that started this summer. Both relate to machine learning but in very different ways.

Increasing Transparency and Trust
The first grant, “Explaining Decisions of Black-Box Models via Input Perturbations,” focuses on explaining the predictions of machine learning. From the user perspective, machine learning systems are essentially “black boxes” — they make complex decisions but users don’t know how or why. This lack of understanding will become problematic as machine learning increasingly supports our financial, healthcare, technology and defense systems.
To address this issue, Singh and his team are developing algorithms that explain why a classifier makes particular decisions, increasing the ease of use (and trust) of these complex systems through transparency. Furthermore, the team will make its work readily available via publications, open-source software, jargon-free documentation and interactive tutorials/demonstrations to encourage the use of machine learning in novel domains.
Modeling Multiple Modalities
The second grant, “Modeling Multiple Modalities for Knowledge-Base Construction,” focuses on conducting machine learning with multiple modalities, such as text, images, numbers and databases. In particular, Singh and his team will investigate a novel construction pipeline for knowledge bases, combining textual and relational evidence with numerical, image, and tabular data.
To accomplish this, the team will first extract new facts about an entity from a document by combining the different parts (that is, the text, images and tables). Then, the team will develop models to identify missing relations in graphs that contain multimodal facts. Ultimately, the project will initiate a body of research in machine learning and natural language processing that uses unstructured multimodal data to better extract knowledge.
— Shani Murray
« Professor Zhao Receives NSF Grant to Develop Tools for Improved Virtual RealityProfessor Harris Presents Tool to Detect Social Engineering Attacks at Black Hat USA »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




