https://www.cs.uci.edu/ph-d-student-jihyun-park-wins-best-paper-award-at-international-data-mining-conference




Ph.D. Student Jihyun Park Wins Best Paper Award at International Data Mining Conference 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Ph.D. Student Jihyun Park Wins Best Paper Award at International Data Mining Conference
July 23, 2018 Computer Science Ph.D. student Jihyun Park is the lead author on a paper that recently won the best paper award at the 11th International Conference on Educational Data Mining Conference (EDM 2018) in Buffalo, N.Y. The paper, “Understanding Student Procrastination via Mixture Models,” proposes a new approach based on statistical machine learning techniques that can extract and quantify patterns of procrastination observed from student clickstream data in online college courses. In particular, persistent procrastination over the duration of a course was found to be strongly predictive of poorer student outcomes, providing strong evidence that time management is critical for success in online courses.

This work is supported by the National Science Foundation as part of the project Investigating Virtual Learning Environments, a five-year collaboration between the UCI School of Education and the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS). The paper was co-authored with Park’s adviser, Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Padhraic Smyth, and graduate student Renzhe Yu, postdoctoral scholar Fernando Rodriguez, and professors Rachel Baker and Mark Warschauer (all in the School of Education).
The Educational Data Mining Conference is one of the leading international conferences on the development of computational methods for analyzing education data, with 145 submissions this year, of which 23 (16 percent) were accepted for presentation.
« Medium – Towards Data Science: “Introducing a simple and intuitive Python API for UCI machine learning repository”Professor Harris Awarded NSF Grant to Detect Social Engineering Attacks »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




