https://www.cs.uci.edu/gene-tsudik-two-computer-science-ph-d-students-develop-novel-de-authentication-prototype




Gene Tsudik, Two Computer Science Ph.D. Students Develop Novel De-Authentication Prototype 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Gene Tsudik, Two Computer Science Ph.D. Students Develop Novel De-Authentication Prototype
June 25, 2018 Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Gene Tsudik and two of his Ph.D. students, Tyler Kaczmarek and Ercan Ozturk, have developed a novel technique aimed at mitigating “Lunchtime Attacks.” Such attacks occur when an insider adversary takes over an authenticated state of a careless user who has left his or her computer unattended. Tsudik, Kaczmarek and Ozturk have come up with an unobtrusive and continuous biometric-based “de-authentication,” i.e., a means of quickly terminating the secure session of a previously authenticated user after detecting that user’s absence. They introduce the new biometric, called Assentication, in a paper appearing at the 2018 International Conference on Applied Cryptography and Network Security (ACNS).

The paper, “Assentication: User De-Authentication and Lunchtime Attack Mitigation with Seated Posture Biometric,” presents a hybrid biometric based on the user’s seated posture pattern. By instrumenting the seat and lower back of a standard office chair with 16 tiny pressure sensors, they found a way to capture a unique combination of physiological and behavioral traits to provide continuous user authentication (and de-authentication). Results from user experiments involving a cohort of 30 subjects show that Assentication yields very low false accept and false reject rates.
— Shani Murray
« Los Angeles Times: “A machine taught itself to solve Rubik’s Cube without human help, UC Irvine researchers say”Gene Tsudik, ICS Exchange Students on International Team Studying Information Leakage »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




