https://www.cs.uci.edu/professor-jain-receives-ieee-award-for-article-on-social-sensed-multimedia-computing




Professor Jain Receives IEEE Award for Article on Social-Sensed Multimedia Computing 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Professor Jain Receives IEEE Award for Article on Social-Sensed Multimedia Computing
June 11, 2018 For the second time in just three years, Ramesh Jain, Bren Professor of Computer Science, has won the IEEE MultiMedia “Best Department Article” award. This year, he received the award for “Social-Sensed Multimedia Computing,” which he co-authored with Peng Cui and Wenwu Zhu of Tsinghua University, China, and Tat-Seng Chua of the National University of Singapore.

“I was pleased but surprised that I was on the winning team for the best paper award,” says Jain, adding that it was “a team effort lead by Professor Cui.”
The paper proposes a paradigm for bringing social media into the loop of multimedia computing to address questions such as whether knowledge sensed from YouTube could help design a recommendation system for TV programs, or if Flickr could be used to improve Google image searches.
Jain, who is also the director of UCI’s Institute for Future Health, won the same award in 2016 for “Let’s Weave the Visual Web,” which discusses the evolution of visual documentation and applications that might emerge from visual knowledge that transcends traditional language-dependent knowledge mechanisms. One example he provides in the paper is how a farmer in India could capture and share only visual knowledge to collaborate with farmers in China and Brazil on research in agriculture.
This image from Jain’s article shows the multimedia technology lifecycle. Understanding and predicting which multimedia content users need in different situations and contexts— the last-mile technology for delivering multimedia services—has not been well studied.
IEEE MultiMedia was one of the first research journals specifically dedicated to the multimedia research field, and over the past 20 years, it has helped initiate and shape some of the major research themes and events in the multimedia field. To recognize the profound contributions of its authors, IEEE MultiMedia established the Best Paper Award (for regular papers and special issue papers) and Best Department Article Award (for department articles) in 2015.
This year’s awards will be presented during a banquet on July 25 at the 2018 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo (ICME) in San Diego.
— Shani Murray
« Professor Vazirani Receives $500K in NSF Funding for New Research into AlgorithmsICS Students Christian Morte and Ayesha Syed Honored with Chancellor’s Award of Distinction »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




