https://www.cs.uci.edu/professor-franz-receives-uci-applied-innovations-inaugural-innovator-of-the-year-award




Professor Franz Receives UCI Applied Innovation’s Inaugural Innovator of the Year Award 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Professor Franz Receives UCI Applied Innovation’s Inaugural Innovator of the Year Award
June 1, 2018 UCI Applied Innovation has recognized Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Michael Franz as its inaugural Innovator of the Year. The new award aims to recognize researchers who have developed a breakthrough idea, process or technology and demonstrated its transformational potential to improve lives and create economic value.

“I am delighted to be recognized by the community in this manner,” says Professor Franz, who received formal certificates of recognition from the United States Congress, State Senate and State Assembly, along with $10,000 to support his lab. However, he was also quick to share the recognition with his former students. “Of course, the real credit belongs to the researchers who helped develop these ideas in the lab at UCI and, after completing their Ph.D.s, are now building a company, Immunant Inc., here at UCI Applied Innovation.” The team was on hand to join in the celebration.
Professor Franz is recognized as Innovator of the Year (from left): Ken Beall (as a representative of the Beall Family Foundation); Immunant co-founders Stephen Crane, Andrei Homescu, Per Larsen and Professor Franz; Marios Papaefthymiou, dean of the Donald Bren School of ICS; and UCI Provost Enrique Lavernia.
Innovator of the Year is one of four inaugural awards, all of which recognize researchers who are actively working to promote the commercialization of university intellectual property. Created with generous support from the Beall Family Foundation, the other awards categories are Emerging Innovation/Early Career Innovator, Entrepreneurial Leader and Lifetime Achievement, all of which come with $5,000.
The award series recognizes efforts such as invention disclosures filed, patents applied for and/or received, technologies licensed or startup companies formed. These activities help back regional economic development in support of UCI’s mission to make a positive human impact.
“The nominations across the board were very strong, very impressive and reflect why UCI is a leading research institution,” said Richard Sudek, chief innovation officer and executive director of UCI Applied Innovation. “It is clear the nominees and award recipients are excellent representatives of the best UCI has to offer in innovation and entrepreneurship.”
— Shani Murray
« SoCal Social Analytics Workshop Serves as Catalyst for Multidisciplinary CollaborationsProfessor Vazirani Receives $500K in NSF Funding for New Research into Algorithms »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




