https://www.cs.uci.edu/professor-goodrich-receives-474000-to-study-geometric-realizations-and-evolving-data




Professor Goodrich Receives $474,000 to Study Geometric Realizations and Evolving Data 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Professor Goodrich Receives $474,000 to Study Geometric Realizations and Evolving Data
May 16, 2018 Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Michael T. Goodrich has received nearly half a million dollars for his grant, “Geometric Realizations and Evolving Data.” He will be working with Professor Gill Barequet at Technion on this joint National Science Foundation (NSF) and U.S.-Israel Binational Science Foundation (BSF) grant, which is part of the Algorithmic Foundations (AF) program. The program supports transformative research and projects that advance the design and rigorous analysis of algorithms.

Starting Oct. 1, 2018 and running through Sept. 30, 2021, the project will study geometric realizations — that is, structures that realize relationships combining combinatorial and geometric constraints — and evolving data, capturing how the data changes over time. Of particular interest will be the algorithmic challenges that arise from geometric realizations and evolving data applications in society, including challenges related to physics, data visualization and the online servicing of fast-changing data.
Notably, Professors Goodrich and Barequet plan to incorporate students into their work, helping to develop the next-generation of information technology researchers. Furthermore, this work will involve collaborations between U.S. and Israeli researchers.
“I am very pleased to be receiving this grant, as it involves collaborating with someone I mentored as a postdoc many years ago who is now a professor in Israel,” says Goodrich.
The overall goal is to develop fast and efficient algorithms and data structures by exploiting methods from graph drawing, computational geometry and the theory of computation.
— Shani Murray
« ICS Anteater Athletes Are Driven to SucceedSenior Spotlight: Graduating Computer Science Major Howard Chen Leaves A Promising Student Security Culture at UCI »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




