https://www.cs.uci.edu/vrcade-exposes-students-to-virtual-reality-trends-challenges-and-opportunities




VRcade Exposes Students to Virtual Reality Trends, Challenges and Opportunities 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


VRcade Exposes Students to Virtual Reality Trends, Challenges and Opportunities
April 26, 2018 Students had fun stepping into virtual worlds at UCI’s first VRcade event, hosted by the Virtual Reality Development Club (VRDC) in collaboration with UCI Esports. VRDC president Edward Lok says the event, held on April 23 at the Esports Arena, was a “great success,” with approximately 50 people attending throughout the night. “Many students got the chance to try VR for the first time and were completely blown away by it.”

Students attending UCI’s first VRcade event at the Esports Arena.
Some of the games the students could sample were Arizona Sunshine, Mecha Mayhem, Raw Data, Sprint Vector and SuperHot VR. Four headsets were available — three with Oculus Rift and one with HTC Vive — so students had ample time to play. “Everyone had a blast,” says Lok.
Students have fun trying out a variety of virtual reality games.
Yet the event wasn’t held merely for fun and games. VRDC aims to foster a VR development community here at UCI, encouraging students to explore potential careers in the VR industry, an industry that some predict will reach $45 billion in revenue by 2025.
“To develop successful VR products,” explains Lok, “we must understand gaming trends, identify what attracts players and explore methodologies for things like locomotion in VR, so we’re doing a lot more than playing games for fun.” He points out that Mecha Mayhem is still in development, so students were able to offer feedback and observe first-hand some of the challenges of the indie game development process. With this first VRcade being a success, Lok adds, “we hope to have more events like this in the future.”
— Shani Murray
« Goodrich Elected to Royal Danish Academy of Sciences & LettersSenior Spotlight: Santiago Martin Powers through UCI and Secures Job at Google »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




