https://www.cs.uci.edu/goodrich-elected-to-royal-danish-academy-of-sciences-letters




Goodrich Elected to Royal Danish Academy of Sciences & Letters 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Goodrich Elected to Royal Danish Academy of Sciences & Letters
April 26, 2018 Michael Goodrich, UCI Chancellor’s Professor of computer science, has been elected as a foreign member of the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences & Letters. Goodrich is a leader in the field of algorithm design, where he is highly recognized for research in geometric computing, networking, geographic information systems, computer security and big data processing.His recent work has focused on fundamental problems such as sorting, convex hull construction, nearest-neighbor searching, linear programming, privacy-preserving data access and data authentication. After earning a Ph.D. in computer science at Purdue University in 1987, Goodrich joined the faculty at Johns Hopkins University. In 2001, he became a professor at UCI, where he has advised 17 doctoral students and taught hundreds of undergraduates. He has co-authored multiple textbooks, including Introduction to Computer Security and Algorithm Design & Applications, of which more than 100,000 copies have been sold, and he has over 300 peer-reviewed publications. Goodrich is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers, and the Association for Computing Machinery. In 2007, he was a Fulbright senior specialist in Denmark. “I am deeply honored to have received this recognition,” Goodrich said. “My collaborations with Danish researchers began even before my Fulbright visit to Denmark and have continued to today. I’m looking forward to the opportunities for further collaboration that membership in the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences & Letters can provide.” Founded in 1742 for the advancement of science in Denmark, the academy is known to be highly selective, with Albert Einstein and Marie Curie among former electees. It currently has about 250 national members and 260 foreign members.
Story courtesy of UCI News
« Professor Baldi Awarded NIH Grant to Develop Informatics Tools to Analyze Circadian RhythmsVRcade Exposes Students to Virtual Reality Trends, Challenges and Opportunities »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




