https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-earns-top-ranking-for-cis-program-from-college-factual




UCI Earns Top Ranking for CIS Program from College Factual 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI Earns Top Ranking for CIS Program from College Factual
March 29, 2018 In its 2018 listing of the best computer information systems (CIS) degree programs, College Factual ranked UCI’s CIS program 24 out of 347 nationwide, and 2 out of 10 in California. This makes UCI’s CIS one of the top programs in the U.S. to study computer information systems. UCI improved its national ranking position two slots over the previous year’s ranking of 26. See the full ranking by CIS major. The program has also been ranked the second best in California two years in a row. See the full ranking of CIS programs in California.
College Factual ranks programs offered by four-year U.S. colleges and universities.
« UCI’s graduate programs shine in U.S. News & World Report rankingsDutt appointed as Distinguished Visiting Professor of CSE at IIT Bombay »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




