https://www.cs.uci.edu/levorato-collaborates-on-3-7-million-grant-for-electricity-distribution-cybersecurity




Levorato Collaborates on $3.7 Million Grant for Electricity Distribution Cybersecurity 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Levorato Collaborates on $3.7 Million Grant for Electricity Distribution Cybersecurity
January 16, 2018 Assistant Professor of Computer Science Marco Levorato is part of a multidisciplinary team that aims to investigate the impact of cyberattacks on electricity distribution infrastructure. The team, led by Hamed Mohsenian-Rad of UC Riverside, includes researchers from UCI, UCLA, UC Santa Barbara and the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL). Through their grant, “UC-Lab Center for Electricity Distribution Cybersecurity,” they will receive $3.75 million between now and February 2021. The grant was awarded as part of the UC Laboratory Fees Research Program, which aims to enhance partnerships between UC researchers and laboratory scientists at LLNL and the Los Alamos National Laboratory.

“My role in the project is the investigation of security vulnerabilities at the intersection between communication networks and the distribution system,” says Levorato. His group will focus on developing new modeling approaches that capture the interdependencies between these networks and systems.
The overall goal is to create new strategies for mitigating vulnerabilities, detecting intrusions and protecting against system-wide attacks. Technological advancements in the sensing, control and communication of electricity distribution systems have exposed this critical infrastructure to new vulnerabilities. The team will work to secure distributed energy resources, such as solar panels and energy storage devices, and electricity distribution networks, building a new knowledge base to address both theoretical and practical challenges in electricity distribution cybersecurity.
— Shani Murray
« ICS Professors Presenting at AICRE Events for Martin Luther King Jr. Weekend2018 ICS Projects and Predictions »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




