https://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/sao/index.php



academic advising @ the bren school of information and computer sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Undergraduate / Academic advising


Academic Advising & Planning

*Check our weekly schedule for the most up to date Advising options
Academic Advisors and Peer Academic Advisors will be available via Live Chat, Email, Drop-In Hours, and Virtual Appointments
Welcome!
It is the student's responsibility to make decisions about his/her educational and career goals.
Undergraduate Counselors are here to help students work towards those goals, and academic advising is an intentional partnership between the student and his/her counselor(s) in which the shared goal is the student’s academic success.
To get you started, use the ICS Student Timeline to learn which resources would be most beneficial to you.
Need To Speak With An Undergraduate Counselor?
The ICS Student Affairs Office is located in the ICS Building, Suite 352.
Undergraduate Counselors are available to assist students on a wide range of topics, including, but not limited to:

Planning and selecting courses
Graduation checks
Long and short term goal setting
Referrals to campus resources

To find out more information regarding the different types of advising meetings, please see our appointments and walk in hours page.
Before Your Meeting

Arrive on time. Call ahead if you will be late, or need to reschedule
Come prepared with questions and concerns
Bring a notebook or your laptop to write notes down
Keep an open mind to consider the options presented to you 

Need Help Deciding Which Classes To Register In? 
We strongly encourage all of our students to create an Academic Plan to assist with registering for classes each quarter and to help stay on track for graduation. Specific Major Degree Sheets are a great tool to assist in creating your academic plan.
To help get you started, follow these steps to create your Academic Plan. You can also watch a recording of our Academic Planning Workshop for step-by-step instructions.
1) Review the UCI Catalogue for your specific major. Make sure to click on the course name to review the pre-requisites.

Make sure to review the Sample Plans on the Catalogue for your major. 
Use Major Degree Sheets to identify when you plan to take each requirement. 
If your major requires a Specialization (Computer Science, Informatics, Computer Game Science) make sure to factor those required courses into your plan.
Pay close attention to course pre-requisites and know which ones you have cleared. If you need to submit a prerequisite clearing request, make sure to do it in advance. 

2) Refer to your Degreeworks which can be found in your Student Access. This will be helpful for tracking both major and GE requirements. 
3) Academic Year Plan- This valuable tool will show you when classes are scheduled to be offered (fall, winter, spring) and will assist you in planning. You will be planning your schedule based on the current year’s plan. The Academic Year Plan is updated during the spring quarter each year and it is your responsibility to check the new plan and update your 4-year plan accordingly.

Make special note of any required classes that are only offered once a year or once every other year, or must be taken in a specific order.

4) Academic Planning Worksheet- use this PDF to save and update your plan as the year progresses. 
5) Have a Peer Advisor or Undergraduate Counselor review your plan! We are more than happy to review your plan with you and offer suggestions.
6) Be prepared to be flexible! Plans can and will change!
Need Help Enrolling In Your Classes?

Confused about wait-lists?
Worried that the course that you need will fill up before your enrollment window?
WebReg Do’s and Don’ts
ICS Enrollment Strategies

Check our News and Updates page for the most up to date advising information.
Can’t Find What You’re Looking For?
If you are unable to find what you are looking for on our website, please feel free to send us an email: ucounsel@uci.edu





More Undergraduate

Contact
News and Updates
Academic advising
Course updates
Academic year plan
ICS majors

GDIM FAQ page
Double major
2nd baccalaureate


ICS minors
Newly Admitted to ICS
Petitions & Forms
Policies

Academic honesty
Academic standing
Add, drop, & change options
Change of Major
Concurrent Enrollment
Coursework outside UCI
CS 199 / IN4MATX 199
Grade policy
ICS Credit by Exam
Laptop & computer use
Withdrawal/Readmission
ICS 192 Enrollment/CPT&OPT


Graduation
ICS student life
ICS Honors Program
Computing support
Title IX Resources









Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











