http://www.ics.uci.edu/~goodrich/teach/cs162/syll.html

CS 162 - Syllabus







  Syllabus - CS 162 - Formal Languages and Autamata Theory
Michael T. Goodrich 

	  http://www.ics.uci.edu/~goodrich/teach/cs162/


Course Description.
Formal aspects of describing and recognizing languages by grammars and automata.
Parsing regular and context-free languages.
Ambiguity, nondeterminism. 
Elements of computability; Turing machines, random access machines, 
undecidable problems, NP-completeness. 

Coursework. Coursework will consist of weekly homeworks,
midterms, and a comprehensive final exam. The overall grade
will be determined 20% from homework, 25% from each midterm, and
30% from the final.
Group work on homeworks is permitted, but each
student must list his or her collaborators in writing for each problem.
If a student turns in a solution without listing
the others who helped produce this solution,
this act will be considered cheating (for it is plagarism).
Late homework assignments will not be accepted, but
for the overall total homework score, 
the lowest homework score will be dropped.


Exam policy.
Exam performance must be 100% individual effort; no collaboration
is allowed on exams.  Any collaboration or copying on exams 
will be considered cheating.
In addition to the procedures of the
ICS 
Cheating Policy, students caught cheating on exams will be given a 
failing grade in the class.

Laptop policy.
Open laptop computers are not allowed during lectures.
Here's one reason why.
Here is another.

Text. The course text will be 
Introduction to the Theory of Computation,
Third Edition,
by Michael Sipser. (Do not use the International Edition.)



Tentative Schedule

Week 1:


Regular Languages, finite automata, DFA.


Week 2:


NFA, Regular expressions, Nonregular languages.



Week 3:

Context free grammars.
Pushdown automata.



Week 4:
Midterm I


Equivalence of CFGs and PDAs. 
Chomsky Normal Form (CNF).



Week 5:


Non-context-free languages. 
Parsing (CYK Algorithm).



Week 6:


Turing machines.
Church-Turing Thesis. 



Week 7:
Midterm II


Decidability.
Rice's Theorem.



Week 8:


Time complexity.
NP-completeness.
Cook's Theorem.



Week 9:


Polynomial-time reductions.
More NP-complete problems.



Week 10:
Space complexity.



PSPACE-complete problems.





Copyright © 2019

Michael T. Goodrich, as to all lectures. 
Students are prohibited from selling 
(or being paid for taking) notes during this course to or by any
person or commercial firm without the express written permission of the
professor teaching this course or from Disabled Services Center (DSC).


