https://www.ics.uci.edu/involved/project_sponsor



Sponsor a Capstone Project Class @ The Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Get involved


Capstone Projects Program





Brief process of steps for a potential capstone project sponsor:Step 1: Complete the one-page scoping/planning formStep 2: Read and review the Sponsor Guide for best practices before Step 3Step 3: 30-minute qualification meetingStep 4: Submit a 2-3 minute "pitch video" of the project, which will be shared with students for the selection process). Videos should be submitted as an MP4 file, should not exceed 3-minutes, and recorded in landscape (wide) orientation.




The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) is inviting industry partners across the board, from start-ups and non-profits to mid-size and established corporations, to work with teams of ICS undergraduate or graduate students on capstone projects.
Capstone projects take place over 10 weeks or 20 weeks (one or two quarters) during the academic year and enable ICS students to engage with regional, national, and global organizations around projects motivated by real-world problems. Project topics tie into cutting-edge areas of computing and information technology, including artificial intelligence and data analytics, cybersecurity, web applications, online services, cloud computing, and mobile applications, to name a few.
Capstone project sponsors often rely on capstone projects to explore new ideas or proof-of-concept prototypes, and the hands-on learning for students may translate into practical solutions down the road. For the vast majority of students and sponsors, however, the benefits extend beyond impressive portfolios and innovative prototypes, providing an informed path to professional development for students and talent recruiting for industry partners.
Sponsorship Options and Project TimelinesCapstone sponsors are encouraged to support the ICS Capstone Program through gifts, with the understanding that non-profits may have limited resources to do so. For information on the schedule and timeline of capstone project courses, please view the project timeline matrix. Typically, sponsors engage in project scoping conversations with our corporate relations team and faculty mentors several months in advance of the target start date. In the beginning of the course, sponsors pitch their proposed projects to the students, and faculty mentors facilitate the process of matching projects with student teams.
Becoming a Sponsor If you are interested in becoming a capstone project sponsor, please submit a student design project planning form. To ensure that your project proposal is considered for review before project spots fill up, please submit your completed scoping form as soon as possible.
For videos of past capstone projects and pitches of capstone project sponsors, please see below:

Past capstone projects: 2022, 2021
Past pitches: Informatics Capstone, Winter 2021

Take the Next Steps in Sponsoring a Project Class Now:

Complete the one-page scoping/planning form.
Read and review the Sponsor Guide for best practices before Step 3
30-minute qualification meeting
 Submit a 2-3 minute "pitch video" of the project, which will be shared with students for the selection process). Videos should be submitted as an MP4 file, should not exceed 3-minutes, and recorded in landscape (wide) orientation.

﻿Upcoming Deadlines

Scoping/Planning Form due date: Sept. 2, 2022
Pitch Video due date: Sept. 9, 2022
Start of Fall 2022 Quarter and Classes: Sept. 22, 2022


For more information or if you have any questions, please contact Jason King, Senior Associate Director of Corporate Relations, at Jason.King@uci.edu or (949) 824-3088.

 




Opportunities for Engagement

Sponsor a Project Class
Dean’s Leadership Council
Corporate Partners
Butterworth Product Development Competition









Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











