https://www.stat.uci.edu/seminar-series-2020-2021




Seminar Series 2020-2021 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Seminar Series 2020-2021
For the Spring 2021 Seminar Series, all talks will take place via Zoom from 4-5 p.m. For additional information, please contact Seminar Administrative Coordinator: Lisa Stieler at lstieler@uci.edu or (949) 824-3806.
Past Statistics Seminar Series:
2019-20 • 2018-19 • 2017-18 • 2016-17 • 2015-16 • 2014-15 •
2013-14 • 2012-13 • 2011-12 • 2010-11
Spring 2021


April 1
Bruno Sanso
Professor of Statistics, UCSC
“Multi-scale Models for Non-stationary Spatial Datasets”
Join via Zoom

April 5 (Monday, 10 a.m.)
Edward Kennedy
Assistant Professor of Statistics, Carnegie Mellon University
Joint seminar with Department of Economics
“Optimal Doubly Robust Estimation of Heterogeneous Causal Effects”
Join via Zoom

April 22
Jose-Miguel Yamal
Associate Professor of Biostatistics,  University of Texas School of Public Health, Biostatistics and Data Science
“Statistics and Machine Learning Methods for EHR Data: From Data Extraction to Data Analytics/Predictions”
Join via Zoom

April 29
Mimi Liljeholm
Associate Professor of Cognitive Sciences, School of Social Sciences, UCI
“Uncertainty & Invariance in Causal Inference”
Join via Zoom

May 6
Tyler H. McCormick
Associate Professor of Statistics and Sociology, University of Washington
“Identifying the Latent Space Geometry of Network Models Through Analysis of Curvature”
Join via Zoom

May 13
Gongjun Xu
Associate Professor of Statistics, Associate Professor of Psychology, Department of Statistics, University of Michigan
“Statistical Inference for Noisy Incomplete 1-Bit Matrix”
Join via Zoom

May 20
Helen Zhang
Professor of Mathematics, University of Arizona
“Oracle P-values for High Dimensional Regression Models”
Join via Zoom

May 27
Uri Eden
Professor, Department of Mathematics & Statistics, Boston University
“Characterizing Complex, Multi-scale Neural Phenomena Using State-space Models”
Join via Zoom

Winter 2021


January 5
Dana Yang
Postdoctoral Researcher, Duke University
“A Few Recovery Problems from Noisy Observations”

January 7
Carlos Cinelli
PhD candidate, UCLA
“Transparent and Robust Causal Inference in Data Science”

January 11
Jesus Arroyo
Postdoctoral Associate, University of Maryland
“Statistical Inference for Multiple Network Data”

January 12
Raaz Dwivedi
PhD candidate, UC Berkeley
“New Perspectives on Old Problems in Causal Inference and MCMC Sampling”

January 14
Yinqiu He
PhD student, University of Michigan
“Hypothesis Testing for Large-Scale Data:
Enhancing Reliability and Efficiency”

January 19
Youjin Lee
Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania
“The Role of Social Network Dependence
in the Replication Crisis”

January 21
Sameer Deshpande
Postdoctoral Associate, MIT
“VCBART: Bayesian Trees for Varying Coefficients”

February 11
Scarlett Bellamy
Professor and Associate Dean for Diversity, Inclusion and Faculty Development
Epidemiology and Biostatistics
Drexel University
“Creating and Sustaining Effective Pipeline Initiatives to Increase Diversity in Biostatistics: A Case Study of the ENAR Fostering Diversity in Biostatistics Workshop”
Join via Zoom.

February 18
Eric Laber
Professor of Statistical Science and Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Duke University
“Sample Size Considerations for Precision Medicine”
Join via Zoom.

February 25
Bo Li
Professor of Statistics
University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
“Detection of Local Differences in Spatial Characteristics between Two Spatiotemporal Random Fields”
Join via Zoom.

March 4
Peter Song
Professor, Department of Biostatistics
University of Michigan
“Analyzing High-dimensional Mediators by Mixed Integer Optimization”
Join via Zoom.

March 11
Briana Stephenson
Assistant Professor, Biostatistics
Harvard University
“Statistical Methods to Accommodate Population Diversity  in Large Cohort Studies”
Join via Zoom.

Fall 2020


October 1
Jelena Bradic, UCSD
“Causal Learning: Excursions in Double Robustness”
Join seminar via Zoom.

October 8
Mahlet Tadesse, Georgetown University
“Variable Selection in Mixture of Regression Models: Uncovering Cluster Structure and Relevant Features”
Join seminar via Zoom.

October 15
Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen, UPenn
“An introduction to Proximal Causal Learning”
Join seminar via Zoom.

October 22
Babak Shahbaba, UCI
“Latent Variable Modeling for Neural Data Analysis”
Join seminar via Zoom.

October 29
Alicia Carriquiry, Iowa State
“Who Wrote It? A Hierarchical Mixture Model for Forensic Handwriting Analysis”
Join seminar via Zoom.


November 5
Francesco Denti, Post Doc, UCI
“Bayesian Sparse Regression via Cluster Shrinkage Parameters”
Join seminar via Zoom.

November 12
Luohua Jiang, UCI
“Evaluating Community-Based Translational Interventions Using Historical Controls: Propensity Score vs. Disease Risk Score Approach”
Join seminar via Zoom.
 


November 19
Zhaoxia Yu, UCI
“Time-varying $ell_0$ Optimization for Spike Inference from Multi-trial Calcium Recordings”
Join seminar via Zoom.

December 3
Weining Shen, UCI
“Matrix Data Modeling: Smoothing and Covariance Estimation”
Join seminar via Zoom.






Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







