https://duttgroup.ics.uci.edu/projects/health-care-iot






Health Care IoT – Dutt Research Group






























 















Skip to content






 

Dutt Research Group
DRG-Lab Webpage








DRG Home
Group Members
Projects

Self-Aware & Adaptive Computing

Information Processing Factory (IPF)
MARS
Unified Parallel Runtime
Memory Adaptation


Health Care IoT

Internet of Cognitive Things in healthcare
Pain Assessment
Maternity Care
NSF Unite Project


Domain-specific Hardware Accelerators
Neuromorphic Computing


Publications
Sister Groups
News




Main Menu










Health Care IoT 



 

Pain Assessment

Pain is a major single reason for people seeking medical care and it is associated with many illnesses. Pain assessment is critical for optimizing pain management interventions. Uncontrolled pain places patients at risk for numerous adverse psychological and physiological consequences, some of which may be life-threatening. Read more.



 

Internet of Cognitive Things in healthcare

Using a Three layer architecture sensor-edge-cloud to monitor patients out of hospital. Monitoring vital signs (respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, temperature, blood pressure, heart rate) to determine early-detection of possible health deterioration and optimize the sensor's efficiency considering these factors. Read more. 



 

Maternity Care

Maternal care aims to improve the overall health and welfare of the pregnant woman. This project presents a community engagement model for Maternal care that is smart, connected and coordinated using technology to proactively reach out to the community and use personalized intervention and education for improved self-management by the women. Read more.





Stress Monitoring

Smartphones and wearable devices made it easier to build a model of human's mental state. In this projects we are also trying to use different psychological methods to alleviate stress in collaboration with social ecology department.



 

UNITE Project

UNITE (UNderserved communITiEs) presents a community engagement model that is smart, deploying ubiquitous monitoring and lifelogging; connected, bringing together a diverse cast of community members including mothers, families, care providers, and outreach resources; and coordinated, using technology to proactively reach out to the community and use personalized intervention and education for improved self-management by the women.  Read more.

 









Find Us Address
3069 Donald Bren Hall
University of California, Irvine
Irvine, CA 92697-3435, USA
Email
drg@ics.uci.edu

 









					Copyright © 2022 Dutt Research Group.				

					Powered by WordPress and HitMag.				












