https://duttgroup.ics.uci.edu/projects/self-aware-adaptive-computing/upr






Unified Parallel Runtime – Dutt Research Group

































   















Skip to content






 

Dutt Research Group
DRG-Lab Webpage








DRG Home
Group Members
Projects

Self-Aware & Adaptive Computing

Information Processing Factory (IPF)
MARS
Unified Parallel Runtime
Memory Adaptation


Health Care IoT

Internet of Cognitive Things in healthcare
Pain Assessment
Maternity Care
NSF Unite Project


Domain-specific Hardware Accelerators
Neuromorphic Computing


Publications
Sister Groups
News




Main Menu










Unified Parallel Runtime 





Unified Parallel Runtime

Contemporary mobile architectures are integrating more programmable accelerators such as GPU, DSP, and FPGA. The chips are also shipped with the support of certain programming frameworks such as OpenCL to program the accelerators. Meanwhile, more mobile applications such as computer vision and deep neural network applications have high demand of computation resources to fulfill their performance requirement. When multiple applications vie for acceleration by specific compute resources, it can cause resource contention and inefficient resource utilization. Hence, we propose a unified parallel runtime framework which has a centralized management of the acceleration task requests from applications. The runtime schedules the tasks to the best compute resource according to application and system requirements.



Sponsor:





				UC Irvine
				




People:





				Chen-Ying Hsieh
				




				Junghyun Park
				




				Nikil Dutt
				




				Ardalan Sani
				




Articles














Chenying Hsieh’s paper got accepted in DATE’19. Titled “The Case for Exploiting Underutilized Resources in Heterogeneous Mobile Architectures”





Publications



2018

 Hsieh, Chenying;  Dutt, Nikil;  Sani, ArdalanThe Case for Exploiting Underutilized Resources in Heterogeneous Mobile Architectures Conference 2018.Abstract | Links | BibTeX@conference{Hsieh2018,
title = {The Case for Exploiting Underutilized Resources in Heterogeneous Mobile Architectures},
author = {Chenying Hsieh and Nikil Dutt and Ardalan Sani},
url = {https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8714970},
year  = {2018},
date = {2018-11-08},
abstract = {Heterogeneous architectures are ubiquitous in mobile platforms, with mobile SoCs typically integrating multiple processors along with accelerators such as GPUs (for data parallel kernels) and DSPs (for signal processing kernels). This strict partitioning of application execution on heterogeneous compute resources often results in underutilization of resources such as DSPs. We present a case study executing a mix of popular data-parallel workloads such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs), computer vision filters and graphics rendering kernels on mobile devices, and show that both performance and energy consumption of mobile platforms can be improved by synergistically deploying these underutilized compute resources. Our experiments on a mobile Snapdragon 835 platform under both single and multiple application scenarios executing the aforementioned workloads demonstrates average performance and energy improvements of 15-46% and 18-80%, respectively, by synergistically deploying all available compute resources, especially the underutilized DSP. These studies make a strong case for developing a unified runtime system that can better exploit underutilized resources in the face of increasing accelerator diversity in heterogeneous mobile platforms.
},
keywords = {},
pubstate = {published},
tppubtype = {conference}
}
CloseHeterogeneous architectures are ubiquitous in mobile platforms, with mobile SoCs typically integrating multiple processors along with accelerators such as GPUs (for data parallel kernels) and DSPs (for signal processing kernels). This strict partitioning of application execution on heterogeneous compute resources often results in underutilization of resources such as DSPs. We present a case study executing a mix of popular data-parallel workloads such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs), computer vision filters and graphics rendering kernels on mobile devices, and show that both performance and energy consumption of mobile platforms can be improved by synergistically deploying these underutilized compute resources. Our experiments on a mobile Snapdragon 835 platform under both single and multiple application scenarios executing the aforementioned workloads demonstrates average performance and energy improvements of 15-46% and 18-80%, respectively, by synergistically deploying all available compute resources, especially the underutilized DSP. These studies make a strong case for developing a unified runtime system that can better exploit underutilized resources in the face of increasing accelerator diversity in heterogeneous mobile platforms.
Closehttps://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8714970Close

Contact Us about This Project 
Your Name
 
 Your Email
 
 Subject
 
 Message
 
 






 









Find Us Address
3069 Donald Bren Hall
University of California, Irvine
Irvine, CA 92697-3435, USA
Email
drg@ics.uci.edu

 









					Copyright © 2022 Dutt Research Group.				

					Powered by WordPress and HitMag.				




 









