https://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/author/dkutas






	David Kutas – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory


































SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory





Author Archive

Exploring the unexplored in social software development platforms

May 23, 2019
On a sunny but slightly cool Friday in Irvine, lead researchers and their students gathered to present their current research pursuits, find common interests, and define future collaborations. We would like to express our gratitude to Debra Brodbeck (Assistant Director of ISR) and David Redmiles (ICS professor) for organizing and coordinating this workshop.

Tags: development, guests, platforms, Research, social, software, UCI, workshop Posted in News, Workshop |   Comments Off on Exploring the unexplored in social software development platforms


Lunch meeting with Consuelo Lopez

March 4, 2019
A former student of SDCL, Consuelo Lopez, visited us today from Buenos Aires, Argentina. Consuelo shared her previous experiences as a graduate student, and provided valuable feedback to all SDCL members on their research projects.

Tags: Former Student, Visit Posted in News |   Comments Off on Lunch meeting with Consuelo Lopez


Philip Guo visits SDCL

January 11, 2019
Philip J. Guo, Assistant Professor of Cognitive Science UC San Diego visited SDCL. Adriana Meza Soria, Ph.D. student in SDCL, presented her research project, Knocap.

 Posted in News |   Comments Off on Philip Guo visits SDCL


New SDCL members

October 16, 2018
Professor Eduardo Santana de Almeida from Brazil is joining our lab for a year. Eduardo is an associate professor at Federal University of Bahia.  Learn more about him on his website: http://homes.dcc.ufba.br/~esa/ Eduardo in SDCL.

Tags: Lab Updates Posted in News |   Comments Off on New SDCL members












 
 


Collaborators

Anita Sarma
David Redmiles
Marian Petre
Shinobu Saito
Thomas LaToza










Home
Research

Chatbots
KnoCap
Past projects

Lighthouse
CrowdDesign
Crowd Debugging
Calico
CodeExchange
Code Orb
Crowd Development
PorchLight




Papers

Technical reports
Dissertations
Books


Opportunities
People

Previous members


Sponsors
Contact

Directions











 The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine.





    





   




Copyright ©             
            SDCL |   eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress |   
                            Log In





