https://www.stat.uci.edu/gillen-furthers-healthcare-research-with-two-nih-grants




Gillen Furthers Healthcare Research with Two NIH Grants 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Gillen Furthers Healthcare Research with Two NIH Grants
October 13, 2017 
Daniel L. Gillen, professor and chair of the Department of Statistics, recently collaborated on two Multiple-Principal-Investigator National Institutes of Health grants, both related to exploiting data analysis to improve healthcare.
The first grant, “Neuroimaging Biomarkers for Cognitive Decline in Elderly with Amyloid Pathology,” is with Dr. Michael Yassa, an associate professor and Chancellor’s Fellow from UCI’s Department of Neurobiology and Behavior. The $3.6 million grant aims to develop and assess neuroimaging biomarkers for predicting cognitive decline. “One of the major initiatives in Alzheimer’s disease is to develop earlier signals for when someone is going to start to decline. … If nothing else, it helps families to prepare,” says Gillen. As co-PI, his job will be to develop novel statistical methods for predicting cognitive decline and apply the work to subject data obtained as part of the grant.
For the other grant, “The Study Partner Requirement in Preclinical Alzheimer’s Disease Trials,” Gillen serves as co-PI with Dr. Joshua Grill, an associate professor of psychiatry and human behavior in the UCI School of Medicine. The two-year grant, with $222,000 awarded for the first year, will focus on the Food and Drug Administration’s study-partner requirement for patients undergoing neuro-cognitive tests, which states that a partner of the patient (such as a spouse, child, or caretaker) must also supply responses to a cognitive test. According to Gillen, “little is known about whether the study partner requirement helps.” Using historical data from two large and well-known studies in Alzheimer’s disease, Grill and Gillen aim to provide empirical evidence to either justify or refute the study-partner requirement by assessing how much additional information and accuracy is gained from the responses of study partners. For this assessment, Gillen will build predictive models based on the patient assessment, the study partner assessment, and both assessments combined to identify which model is most effective in recognizing early cognitive decline.


« Mazmanian, Regan and Shahbaba appointed DECADE Graduate Faculty MentorsUCI’s data science program ranked 18th in nation by BCSS »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







