https://www.stat.uci.edu/mazmanian-regan-and-shahbaba-appointed-decade-graduate-faculty-mentors




Mazmanian, Regan and Shahbaba appointed DECADE Graduate Faculty Mentors 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Mazmanian, Regan and Shahbaba appointed DECADE Graduate Faculty Mentors
August 4, 2017 The UCI Office of Inclusive Excellence (OIE) has appointed ICS professors Melissa Mazmanian, Amelia Regan and Babak Shahbaba to serve as DECADE (Diverse Educational Community and Doctoral Experience) Graduate Faculty Mentors. Mazmanian will serve as a mentor for the graduate program in informatics, Shahbaba will be the mentor for the graduate program in statistics; and Regan will serve as a mentor for the graduate programs in computer science, network systems and transportation science. They each will serve two-year terms that started in July.

The UCI DECADE Graduate Mentor Program is dedicated to nurturing a positive diversity climate within academic programs by serving as a resource between graduate students and faculty across campus. As DECADE Faculty Members, Mazmanian, Shahbaba and Regan will collaborate with ICS equity advisors, senior faculty members and graduate students from their respective departments to promote an inclusive climate for students. The program’s goal is to increase the number of minorities and women in their disciplines receiving doctoral degrees at UCI. 
Established in 2015, the DECADE Program was initially supported by the U.S. Department of Education’s Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (FIPSE) grant. DECADE is now housed under the OIE and has become a powerful tool to promote an affirmative climate for graduate education on campus, as well as a means to grow the knowledge and innovation workforce of tomorrow. 
DECADE Graduate Program Mentors must be tenured faculty members who have demonstrated a commitment to diversity and equity at the undergraduate, graduate or faculty levels, and must be experienced in advising, training and graduating doctoral students. 


« 2017 ICS Dean’s Award WinnersGillen Furthers Healthcare Research with Two NIH Grants »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







