https://www.stat.uci.edu/2017-ics-deans-award-winners




2017 ICS Dean’s Award Winners 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
2017 ICS Dean’s Award Winners
February 23, 2017 Five accomplished ICS faculty are awarded for their innovative research, exemplar service, student mentorship and exceptional teaching skills.
Congratulations to the 2016-2017 recipients of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Dean’s Awards, where accomplished ICS faculty are awarded for their innovative research, exemplar service, student mentorship and exceptional teaching skills. Recipients are peer- and self-nominated, garnering a certificate and a $500 discretionary award for their achievement.

This year’s awardees are:
Dean’s Award for Research
Michael Carey
Carey was recognized for his contributions to the creation of data management platforms.
Dean’s Mid-Career Award for Research
Hernando Ombao
Ombao is awarded for his contributions to statistical methods for the analysis of time-series and spatio-temporal data.
Dean’s Award for Service
Gillian Hayes
Hayes receives her award for her leadership in launching the new master’s program in human computer interaction and design.
Dean’s Award for Graduate Student Mentoring
Melissa Mazmanian
Mazmanian is recognized for her inspiring and dedicated mentoring of graduate students in informatics.
Dean’s Award for Undergraduate Teaching
Jim Jones
Jones receives he award for his excellent and innovative instruction of undergraduates in software engineering.
View a list of past Dean’s Award winners.
During the award ceremony on Feb. 15, which took place during a school-wide faculty meeting, ICS Dean Marios Papaefthymiou also handed out special recognition awards to Professor Jessica Utts for her years of service as the former Chair of the Department of Statistics, and to Computer Science Professor Tony Givargis for his years of service as the former ICS Associate Dean for Student Affairs. Both Utts and Givargis were unable to accept their awards at last year’s ceremony. 


« Data Scientist ranked top U.S. job by GlassdoorMazmanian, Regan and Shahbaba appointed DECADE Graduate Faculty Mentors »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







