https://www.stat.uci.edu/data-scientist-ranked-top-u-s-job-by-glassdoor




Data Scientist ranked top U.S. job by Glassdoor 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Data Scientist ranked top U.S. job by Glassdoor
February 1, 2017 Data scientist proves to be the top job in America, again. The Harvard Business Review named it, “the sexist job of the 21st century” back in 2012. Then earlier this week, recruiting website Glassdoor released its annual ranking of the 50 best jobs in America; of particular interest, the 17 best jobs that pay over $100,000. On both Glassdoor lists, data scientist was ranked No. 1.

Data scientist was reported to have a median base salary of $110,000 and a job satisfaction rating of 4.4 (out of 5). Glassdoor estimates that there are roughly 4,184 current job openings for the position, a good sign for job seekers. In addition to the handsome paycheck and high levels of job satisfaction, data scientists can often work and play in top metropolitan cities, such as New York, Chicago, Seattle, the Bay Area, Honolulu and right here in Irvine.
Data science is often a misunderstood, disregarded as a position that works with Excel spredsheets or a last-ditch effort by companies to gain insights from social data; however, data science is neither of these. In fact, data science is an interdisciplinary area of study with a dual emphasis on statistics (and mathematical aspects of data analysis) and computer science (including algorithms, data structures, data management and machine learning). Data scientists use statistical and computing principles to analyze raw data, both big and small, and then process, organize and structure it into meaningful information for industry.
Until recently, curating the right skills to fit into this position was a labor unto itself. Then three years ago UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences launched the only undergraduate data science degree in the UC system. Today the major prepares students for a career in data analysis, combining foundational  statistical concepts with computational principles from computer science. More information about the B.S. in data science can be found here.


« Ph.D. Students Gao and Cruz receive ASA paper awards2017 ICS Dean’s Award Winners »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







