https://www.stat.uci.edu/ombao-uci-space-time-modeling-group-contribute-to-new-handbook-of-neuroimaging-data-analysis




Ombao, UCI Space-Time Modeling Group contribute to new Handbook of Neuroimaging Data Analysis 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Ombao, UCI Space-Time Modeling Group contribute to new Handbook of Neuroimaging Data Analysis
January 4, 2017 Several members of the UC Irvine Space-Time Modeling Group contributed to the recent release of the Handbook of Neuroimaging Data Analysis, which was published in November 2016 by Chapman and Hall/CRC. Statistics Professor and American Statistical Association Fellow Hernando Ombao served as one of the book’s editors, while Chee-Ming Ting, Carolina Euan, Lechuan Hu, Yuxiao Wang and Anna Schroeder were contributing co-authors for the 662-page handbook. In addition to Ombao, the handbook’s other editors were Martin Lindquist form Johns Hopkins University, Wesley Thompson from UC San Diego, and John Aston from the University of Cambridge.

According to the publisher, the handbook explores various state-of-the-art aspects behind the statistical analysis of neuroimaging data, examines the development of novel statistical approaches to model brain data, and offers a path for statisticians to contribute to this rapidly emerging research area in theoretical and applied statistics. The book was designed for researchers in statistics, biostatistics, computer science, cognitive science, computer engineering, biomedical engineering, applied mathematics, physics and radiology; however, it can also be used as a textbook for graduate-level courses in statistics and biostatistics or as a self-study reference for Ph.D. students in statistics, biostatistics, psychology, neuroscience and computer science.

« Statistics Ph.D. Students Wang, Gao win ENAR Distinguished Paper AwardsPh.D. Students Gao and Cruz receive ASA paper awards »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







