https://www.stat.uci.edu/statistics-ph-d-students-wang-gao-win-enar-distinguished-paper-awards




Statistics Ph.D. Students Wang, Gao win ENAR Distinguished Paper Awards 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Statistics Ph.D. Students Wang, Gao win ENAR Distinguished Paper Awards
January 4, 2017 Two Ph.D. students from the UC Irvine’s Department of Statistics, Yuxiao Wang and Xu Gao, were recently named winners in the Eastern North American Region (ENAR) International Biometrics Society’s 2017 Distinguished Student Paper Award competition.

Wang’s paper, titled “Exploratory Analysis of High Dimensional Time Series with Applications to Multichannel Electroencephalograms,” addresses the major hurdle of high dimensionality in EEG analysis by extracting the optimal lower dimensional representations. Gao’s winning paper, titled “Evolutionary State Space Model and its Application to Time-Frequency Local Field Potentials Analysis,” proposes an evolutionary state space model (E-SSM) for analyzing high dimensional brain signals (in particular, local field potentials in rats) whose statistical properties evolve over the course of a non-spatial memory experiment.
Both student papers will be presented in March at the ENAR 2017 Spring Meeting in Washington, D.C.


« 3 ICS researchers named AAAS fellowsOmbao, UCI Space-Time Modeling Group contribute to new Handbook of Neuroimaging Data Analysis »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







