https://www.stat.uci.edu/3-ics-researchers-named-aaas-fellows




3 ICS researchers named AAAS fellows 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
3 ICS researchers named AAAS fellows
November 21, 2016 Ramesh Jain, Hal Stern and Gene Tsudik are recognized by the American Association for the Advancement of Science for contributions to their fields.


Three faculty members from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) have been named fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the world’s largest general scientific society. Donald Bren Professor of Computer Science Ramesh Jain, Ted and Janice Smith Family Foundation Dean Hal Stern and Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Gene Tsudik were among nine other UC Irvine researchers honored by AAAS this year.
A total of 391 AAAS members are being honored this year for their efforts to further science or its applications. New fellows will receive an official certificate and a gold-and-blue rosette pin on Feb. 18, 2017, at the organization’s annual meeting in Boston. They will also be formally announced in the Nov. 25, 2016 AAAS News & Notes section of the journal Science.
“The AAAS plays an important role with the advancement of scientific research, education and outreach in the U.S.,” said Pramod Khargonekar, UCI vice chancellor for research. “These brilliant scientists – who represent a broad spectrum of academic pursuits – personify UCI’s research innovation and excellence, and we are proud of their achievements.”
Jain is noted for his distinguished contributions to the fields of computer vision, multimedia information management and experiential computing resulting in transforming the multimedia community with multiple successes in innovation and entrepreneurship. Stern is recognized for his high-impact contributions to statistical methodology and important applications, for development and application of Bayesian methods, and for high-leverage national service and university administration. Tsudik is noted for his contributions to security and privacy of the Internet.
“The AAAS mission is to advance science in its service of society,” said Stern. “The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences prides itself on performing research that uses computational and technological tools to help address societal challenges, and for this reason it is a great honor for three ICS faculty members to be recognized in the same year.”
A total of nine UC Irvine researchers in areas ranging from anthropology and psychology to computer science and biology were named AAAS fellows this year, bringing UCI’s total to 150 AAAS fellows. Within ICS Jain, Stern and Tsudik join five other ICS colleagues who have previously been named AAAS Fellows: Eric Mjolsness (Computer Science), Geoffrey Bowker (Informatics), Pierre Baldi (Computer Science), Michael Goodrich (Computer Science) and Jessica Utts (Statistics).
For more information, read the official UC Irvine announcement >

« Los Angeles Times: “Why giving people $5 to take a government survey is money well spent” by Jessica UttsStatistics Ph.D. Students Wang, Gao win ENAR Distinguished Paper Awards »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







