https://www.stat.uci.edu/nuno-pluta-receive-graduate-statistics-award




Nuno, Pluta receive graduate statistics award 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Nuno, Pluta receive graduate statistics award
October 13, 2016  The two Ph.D. students were honored with Robert L. Newcomb Memorial Endowed Graduate Student Award


Statistics Ph.D. students Michelle Nuno and Dustin Steven Pluta have been honored with the Robert L. Newcomb Memorial Endowed Graduate Student Award. Established in honor of the late Robert Newcomb, founding director of the UC Irvine Center for Statistical Consulting and dedicated 45-year member of the UCI community, the award supports outstanding graduate students working toward statistics degrees.
Q&A with Michelle Nuno
Michelle Nuno is from Chino, Calif., and received her bachelor’s degree from UC Riverside. She was kind enough to answer a few questions about herself and her research.
Why did you choose to pursue graduate studies at ICS?
After receiving my acceptance letter, professors from the department sent personalized emails. During my visit, everyone was very friendly and I found that I could be very happy here. 
How does it feel to have received the Robert L. Newcomb Memorial Endowed Graduate Student Award?
I am very surprised, but also very grateful to have received this award. 
What is your current research focus, and why did you choose to go into that field of study?
I am currently working on extending efficient sampling designs to deal with scenarios in which we may have time-varying effects. I became very interested in survival analysis and clinical studies after taking a survival analysis course last year. 
What are your future career goals?
I plan to become a professor. 
Any words of wisdom for prospective grad students looking to study at UCI?
Just do your best. You may run into difficult situations, but remember that everyone is here to help you. 

« ICS welcomes four new faculty members for fall 2016 quarterLos Angeles Times: “Why giving people $5 to take a government survey is money well spent” by Jessica Utts »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







