https://www.stat.uci.edu/nsf-awards-professor-shahbaba-uci-team-250k-for-big-data-analysis-research




NSF awards Professor Shahbaba, UCI team $250K for big data analysis research 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
NSF awards Professor Shahbaba, UCI team $250K for big data analysis research
July 15, 2016 Associate Professor of Satistics Babak Shahbaba, together with co-principal investigators Hongkai Zhao and Jeffrey Streets from UCI’s Department of Mathematics, have received $250,000 from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for their project, “Theory and practice for exploiting the underlying structure of probability models in big data analysis.” According to Shahbaba, the project aims to “develop a theoretical framework to study underlying structures of statistical models and use this framework in practice to design efficient and scalable computational methods and algorithms for Bayesian inference.”

The project will attempt to catch data analysis up to the current “data deluge” generated by increasingly powerful scientific experiments, routine use of digital sensors and intensive computer simulations. Current data analysis tools lack the theoretical foundation as well as computational complexity and scalability to find effective and computationally feasible methods for processing and analyzing very large datasets, the research team notes. Ultimately, Shahbaba and the research team will develop novel techniques to be applied to real computationally intensive problems from the biological sciences.
“Due to its interdisciplinary nature, this research is expected to contribute to several fields, including statistics, machine learning, applied mathematics, and data-intensive computing,” the research team notes.
The NSF award comes from its Division of Mathematical Sciences (DMS), which supports research in mathematics and statistics, training through research involvement of the next generation of mathematical scientists, conferences and workshops, and a portfolio of national mathematical sciences research institutes.


« Stern receives DeGroot Prize for “Bayesian Data Analysis”New dean named for ICS » 
Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 


Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy








