https://www.stat.uci.edu/stern-receives-degroot-prize-for-bayesian-data-analysis




Stern receives DeGroot Prize for “Bayesian Data Analysis” 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Stern receives DeGroot Prize for “Bayesian Data Analysis”
July 8, 2016 Professor of Statistics Hal Stern—together with his coauthors Andrew Gelman, John B. Carlin, David B. Dunson, Aki Vehtari and Donald B. Rubin—has received the DeGroot Prize for his book, Bayesian Data Analysis.

The DeGroot Prize, awarded by the International Society for Bayesian Analysis (ISBA), recognizes influential texts concerned with fundamental issues of statistical inference, decision theory and statistical applications. Named for Morris H. “Morrie” DeGroot, the prize “recognizes the impact and importance of his work in Statistics and Decision Theory, and his marked influence on the evolution of the discipline over several decades through his personal scholarship, educational and professional leadership,” according to ISBA.
Bayesian Data Analysis is a leading textbook on Bayesian methods with its accessible introduction to the statistical theory. The book adopts a practical approach and offers many examples of real statistical analyses throughout. It has proven to be a useful text for undergraduates, graduate students and researchers alike.
The ISBA promotes the development and application of Bayesian analysis useful in the solution of theoretical and applied problems in science, industry and government. It also sponsors and organizes meetings of the Bayesian community and publishes the electronic journal Bayesian Analysis.


« Dean Stern’s co-led CSAFE cited in White House Impact ReportNSF awards Professor Shahbaba, UCI team $250K for big data analysis research » 
Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 


Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy








