https://www.stat.uci.edu/dean-sterns-co-led-csafe-cited-in-white-house-impact-report




Dean Stern’s co-led CSAFE cited in White House Impact Report 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Dean Stern’s co-led CSAFE cited in White House Impact Report
June 28, 2016 The recently-formed Center for Statistics and Applications in Forensic Evidence (CSAFE)—co-led by Dean of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences and Professor of Statistics Hal Stern—has landed on a White House Impact Report that features 100 examples of President Obama’s leadership in science, technology and innovation during his presidency.

Funded by a five-year $20 million grant from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), CSAFE is a consortium of four universities—UC Irvine, Iowa State University, Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Virginia. It “marshals the breadth and strength of the statistical community in the U.S. and abroad to collaborate with forensic and statistical scientists at NIST, the FBI, and state and local crime labs to ensure the quantification of uncertainty associated with various pattern and digital evidence analyses,” according to the consortium’s website. CSAFE aims to improve criminal evidence analysis and reduce wrongful convictions nationwide.
“Following publication of a 2009 National Academy of Sciences report questioning the adequacy of the scientific underpinnings of a number of forensic-science disciplines, the Administration created the National Commission on Forensic Science to help address the issue, launched a Center of Excellence in Forensic Science funded by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to strengthen the statistical foundation for pattern and digital evidence, and explored ways to strengthen the medico-legal death investigation system,” the White House Impact report says of CSAFE and its related efforts.
Headquartered at Iowa State University, CSAFE has focused on developing innovative, statistically sound, and robust methods for digital and pattern forensic evidence since its founding in 2015.


« Gillen, Ombao named ASA FellowsStern receives DeGroot Prize for “Bayesian Data Analysis” »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







