https://www.stat.uci.edu/gillen-ombao-named-asa-fellows




Gillen, Ombao named ASA Fellows 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Gillen, Ombao named ASA Fellows
June 16, 2016 Statistics Professors Daniel Gillen and Hernando Ombao have been named Fellows of the American Statistical Association (ASA), the nation’s preeminent professional statistical society. One of the highest honors in the profession, fellows are recognized “for outstanding professional contributions to and leadership in the field of statistical science,” according the ASA.

Gillen is noted for his contributions to statistical methodology in censoring-robust survival analysis, group sequential methods and genetic epidemiology; for continuing and effective mentoring of students; for exemplary statistical consulting; and for significant contributions to the statistical profession.
Ombao is specifically noted for his contributions to time series analysis, spatio-temporal models and signal processing, and their applications to brain imaging and neuroscience; and for student mentoring in these research areas.
“The designation of ASA Fellow has been a significant honor for nearly 100 years,” the ASA says. Only one-third of one percent of ASA members can be elected fellows annually, and recipients are nominated by their ASA-member peers. Fellows are evaluated on their contributions to the advancement of statistical science, the impact of their published works, their position with their employer, and activities with the ASA and other professional societies. “To be honored, nominees must have an established reputation in the profession and have made outstanding contributions to statistical science,” the ASA adds.
Ombao and Gillen will be honored during a formal award ceremony at the Joint Statistical Meetings in Chicago this August, where Statistics Professor and ASA President Jessica Utts will give a presidential address. Gillen and Ombao join an ICS cohort of ASA fellows that includes UCI Statistics Professors Utts, Hal Stern and Wesley Johnson. 


« WSJ: “Foreign Students Seen Cheating More Than Domestic Ones” (Hancock quoted)Dean Stern’s co-led CSAFE cited in White House Impact Report »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







