https://www.stat.uci.edu/two-statistics-ph-d-students-receive-honorable-mentions-in-nsf-grfp




Two Statistics Ph.D. students receive honorable mentions in NSF GRFP 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Two Statistics Ph.D. students receive honorable mentions in NSF GRFP
April 4, 2016 Two Statistics Ph.D. Students, Chris Galbraith and Michelle Nuno, received honorable mentions in the recent National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program (NSF GRFP) Competition. Chris Galbraith’s proposal was “Modeling Individual-Level Event Data via Semi-Parametric Mixture/s” and Michelle Nuno’s proposal was “Statistical Analysis of Multivariate Traits with Repeated Measurements.”

This year, a diverse group of 2,000 individuals were chosen from an applicant pool of almost 17,000 to receive awards from the NSF GRFP. “The Graduate Research Fellowship Program is a vital part of our efforts to foster and promote excellence in U.S. science, technology, engineering and mathematics by recognizing talent broadly from across the nation,” said Joan Ferrini-Mundy, NSF assistant director for Education and Human Resources, in a press release. “These awards are provided to individuals who have demonstrated their potential for significant research achievements, and they are investments that will help propel this country’s future innovations and economic growth.”
A complete list of those offered fellowships for 2016 can be found here.


« Jessica Utts: An ambassador for statisticsWSJ: “Foreign Students Seen Cheating More Than Domestic Ones” (Hancock quoted) »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







