https://www.stat.uci.edu/statistics-ph-d-student-receives-enar-distinguished-student-paper-award




Statistics Ph.D. student receives ENAR Distinguished Student Paper Award 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Statistics Ph.D. student receives ENAR Distinguished Student Paper Award
December 21, 2015 Duy Ngo’s paper develops a systematic procedure for analyzing electroencephalograms collected across many trials.

Statistics Ph.D. student Duy Ngo has received a Distinguished Student Paper Award from the International Biometric Society Eastern North American Region (ENAR). His paper, “An Exploratory Coherence Analysis of Electroencephalograms Using the Functional Boxplots Approach” develops a systematic procedure for analyzing electroencephalograms collected across many trials. The co-authors in this paper from UC Irvine are Hernando Ombao (Statistics), Jennifer Wu (Neurology), Steven C. Cramer (Neurology) and Ramesh Srinivasan (Cognitive Science); from KAUST, Saudi Arabia are Marc Genton and Ying Sun.
Ngo will receive a travel reward to present his paper at the ENAR Spring 2016 meeting in Austin, Texas where he will also be formally honored at the ENAR President’s Invited Address session. Ngo’s research interests fall along the intersection of statistical methods and neuroscience. He studies time series and spectral analysis, computational statistics and Bayesian inference, EEG data, and pre-processing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). He is a member of the UC Irvine Space-Time Modeling Group: http://ucispacetime.wix.com/spacetime.

Jessica Utts: An ambassador for statistics »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







