https://www.stat.uci.edu/news/page/15




News 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Dean Stern’s co-led CSAFE cited in White House Impact Report
June 28, 2016 The recently-formed Center for Statistics and Applications in Forensic Evidence (CSAFE)—co-led by Dean of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences and Professor of Statistics Hal Stern—has landed on a White House Impact Report that features 100 examples of President Obama’s leadership in science, technology and innovation during his presidency.
[Read more…]
Gillen, Ombao named ASA Fellows
June 16, 2016 Statistics Professors Daniel Gillen and Hernando Ombao have been named Fellows of the American Statistical Association (ASA), the nation’s preeminent professional statistical society. One of the highest honors in the profession, fellows are recognized “for outstanding professional contributions to and leadership in the field of statistical science,” according the ASA.
[Read more…]
WSJ: “Foreign Students Seen Cheating More Than Domestic Ones” (Hancock quoted)
June 5, 2016 Statistics Professor Stacey Hancock was recently interviewed by The Wall Street Journal for a June 5, 2016 article titled “Foreign Students Seen Cheating More Than Domestic Ones.” The in-depth article looks at the rise of alleged cheating by international students at public universities in the United States. Hancock was among several professors who were interviewed from around the country for the article. According to Hancock, a large portion of faculty time is spent trying to ensure academic honesty and deter cheating by putting safeguards in place such as randomized seating and offering multiple versions of a test.
View the full story on the WSJ website (may require subscription).
[Read more…]
Two Statistics Ph.D. students receive honorable mentions in NSF GRFP
April 4, 2016 Two Statistics Ph.D. Students, Chris Galbraith and Michelle Nuno, received honorable mentions in the recent National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program (NSF GRFP) Competition. Chris Galbraith’s proposal was “Modeling Individual-Level Event Data via Semi-Parametric Mixture/s” and Michelle Nuno’s proposal was “Statistical Analysis of Multivariate Traits with Repeated Measurements.”
[Read more…]
Jessica Utts: An ambassador for statistics
March 3, 2016 As ASA president, Utts looks forward to forging new relationships with statisticians and promoting the field worldwide.
[Read more…]
Statistics Ph.D. student receives ENAR Distinguished Student Paper Award
December 21, 2015 Duy Ngo’s paper develops a systematic procedure for analyzing electroencephalograms collected across many trials.
[Read more…]
« Previous Page
1
…
13
14
15



Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







