https://www.stat.uci.edu/news/page/13




News 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Zhu Wins 2017 Newcomb Graduate Award in Statistics
October 25, 2017 Graduate statistics student Shuying Zhu is the recipient of the 2017 Robert L. Newcomb Memorial Endowed Graduate Award, which aims to provide statistical support to researchers and advance the careers of graduate students in the Donald Bren School of ICS. Zhu previously studied chemical engineering in China, but she found statistics to be “useful and interesting.” A friend who studied at UC Irvine recommended the statistics program, so Zhu looked into it and realized it was a good program. She says Irvine is a nice place, and in her free time she enjoys playing badminton and tennis. She is interested in applied statistics and appreciates having the chance to learn. She plans to apply for a Ph.D. program and wants to start a career in academia. Zhu was “very surprised and grateful” to learn she had received the Newcomb award.
Alexandra Peterson Named Outstanding TA in Statistics
October 23, 2017 The 2017 Outstanding TA Award in Statistics went to Alexandra Peterson, a third-year Ph.D. student in the Department of Statistics. According to Peterson, being a good TA requires more than just a solid understanding of the course material. TAs should also be able to “provide several different understandable explanations for the students,” she says. Peterson adds that “it is also important to seem approachable so that students feel comfortable asking questions.”
Brandon Berman received Honorable Mention.
New Faculty Spotlight:  Statistics Professor Bin Nan Welcomes Collaboration
October 23, 2017 Bin Nan, Professor of Statistics, joined the ICS faculty in September 2017.
 [Read more…]
UCI News: “UCI neurobiologists aim to identify biomarkers for Alzheimer’s disease” (Dan Gillen mentioned)
October 23, 2017 With $3.8 million in support from the National Institute on Aging, University of California, Irvine neurobiologists are working to identify the early indicators of dementia in older adults as disease-related brain plaques accumulate but before symptoms can be observed. The researchers are developing sophisticated methods using brain imaging technology to understand the mechanisms of Alzheimer’s disease and predict its onset before any outward manifestations. If successful, their work will pave the way for effective preventive treatments that will substantially increase quality of life for patients and reduce the burden on families and the healthcare system.
Read the full story at UCI News.
Statistics Department Welcomes Two New Faculty for 2017
October 18, 2017  [Read more…]
UCI’s data science program ranked 18th in nation by BCSS
October 18, 2017 Best Computer Science Schools (BCSS), a leading authority on computer science, tech education and college rankings, has released a new ranking of the 35 Best Big Data Degrees for 2017 in which UCI was ranked as having the 18th best data science bachelor’s degree program in the nation. The ranking highlights the growth and impact of UCI’s B.S. program in data science, which is housed in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. The data science bachelor’s has a dual emphasis on the principles of both statistics and computer science, with foundational training in statistical and mathematical aspects of data analysis, as well as in the broad principles of computer science (including algorithms, data structures, data management and machine learning).
[Read more…]
Gillen Furthers Healthcare Research with Two NIH Grants
October 13, 2017  [Read more…]
Mazmanian, Regan and Shahbaba appointed DECADE Graduate Faculty Mentors
August 4, 2017 The UCI Office of Inclusive Excellence (OIE) has appointed ICS professors Melissa Mazmanian, Amelia Regan and Babak Shahbaba to serve as DECADE (Diverse Educational Community and Doctoral Experience) Graduate Faculty Mentors. Mazmanian will serve as a mentor for the graduate program in informatics, Shahbaba will be the mentor for the graduate program in statistics; and Regan will serve as a mentor for the graduate programs in computer science, network systems and transportation science. They each will serve two-year terms that started in July.
[Read more…]
2017 ICS Dean’s Award Winners
February 23, 2017 Five accomplished ICS faculty are awarded for their innovative research, exemplar service, student mentorship and exceptional teaching skills.
Congratulations to the 2016-2017 recipients of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Dean’s Awards, where accomplished ICS faculty are awarded for their innovative research, exemplar service, student mentorship and exceptional teaching skills. Recipients are peer- and self-nominated, garnering a certificate and a $500 discretionary award for their achievement.
[Read more…]
Data Scientist ranked top U.S. job by Glassdoor
February 1, 2017 Data scientist proves to be the top job in America, again. The Harvard Business Review named it, “the sexist job of the 21st century” back in 2012. Then earlier this week, recruiting website Glassdoor released its annual ranking of the 50 best jobs in America; of particular interest, the 17 best jobs that pay over $100,000. On both Glassdoor lists, data scientist was ranked No. 1.
 [Read more…]
« Previous Page
1
…
11
12
13
14
15
Next Page »



Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







