https://www.stat.uci.edu/news/page/9




News 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
KPCC: “Vexed By College Statistics Courses? New Approaches Emphasize Practical Learning” (Jessica Utts interviewed)
October 25, 2019 
College-level math is a big obstacle to graduation for many California students — and statistics is often the biggest roadblock within the curriculum.
Universities are revisiting a decades-old effort to improve the teaching of statistics by focusing introductory classes on concepts and showing how they apply in the real world before teaching the formulas that trip up many students.
Listen to the interview at KPCC.
LAist: “SoCal Professors Push To Make College-Level Statistics Less Painful ” (Jessica Utts quoted)
October 22, 2019 
In 2003, UC Irvine Statistics Professor Jessica Utts has been calling for statistics curriculum reform for decades. She was inspired, in part, by the college experiences of her mother and her sister.
“They had really opposite experiences,” she said. “My mother had a wonderful experience because it was taught by someone who knew what that particular group of people needed. Whereas my sister had a horrible experience. It was taught as a formula-based course. Like it was a math course.”
Read the full story at LAist.
ICS Welcomes 8 New Faculty for 2019
October 14, 2019 

The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences is pleased to introduce the following eight faculty who joined ICS in calendar year 2019. These outstanding researchers and educators advance our school’s strategic priorities in the areas of data science, artificial intelligence, and big data systems while strengthening our expanding collaborations across campus in the areas of health informatics and computational science and engineering. With these new hires, the number of tenure-track faculty in our school has increased by 40% within three years, bringing the total count to an all-time high of 93, and reflecting the unprecedented growth in our enrollments and research activity.


[Read more…]Senior Spotlight: Taneisha Arora Pursues Her Passions, From Working in Industry to Running a Bakery
October 7, 2019 

For the past three years, Taneisha Arora has been double majoring in software engineering and data science, straddling all three departments in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS). With software engineering being offered by the Department of Informatics jointly with the Department of Computer Science, and data science offered through the Department of Statistics, the double major supported her work at the intersection of machine learning and statistics. In addition to her studies, Arora volunteered for the AppJam+ program, mentoring middle school students on STEM concepts, and won a “Best Web App” hackathon award. Then, she spent the past summer in Boulder, Colorado, interning at Google. Now, as she starts her senior year, she decided to swap her software engineering major for a minor in ICS, allowing her more time to focus on her research and take classes that excite her.
[Read more…]Statistics Professors Shahbaba and Minin Help Develop Framework to Investigate Complex Biological  Systems
August 12, 2019 

Statistics Professor Babak Shahbaba is the principal investigator (PI) of a new three-year, $800,000 grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF). The project, “Modulus: Data-Driven Mechanistic Modeling of Hierarchical Tissues,” brings together an interdisciplinary team of biologists, statisticians and mathematicians, including co-PIs Statistics Professor Vladimir Minin and Assistant Professor Angela Fleischman from the UCI School of Medicine. The goal is to develop a new mathematical framework that combines statistical and mechanistic models to help scientists discover emergent biological phenomena and to understand the rules that govern them.
[Read more…]Hal Stern Appointed Vice Provost for Academic Planning
August 7, 2019 

Dear colleagues,On behalf of Chancellor Gillman, I am pleased to 
announce that Hal S. Stern has been appointed vice provost for academic 
planning, effective Sept. 1. Since joining UCI as founding chair of the 
Department of Statistics in 2002, Professor Stern has held a range of 
academic and administrative leadership roles. He served for eight years 
as chair of statistics and then more than six years as the Ted and 
Janice Smith Family Foundation Dean of the Donald Bren School of 
Information and Computer Sciences. He is currently a Chancellor’s 
Professor of statistics.
[Read more…]Professor Nan Awarded NSF Grant to Improve Statistical Inference
August 6, 2019 

Statistics Professor Bin Nan, motivated by his collaborations in biomedical studies, is developing new theories and methods that will lead to more reliable results in high-dimensional statistical inference with potential applications in genetics and brain imaging studies. The National Science Foundation (NSF) recently awarded him $200,000 over three years for his grant, “High-Dimensional Inference beyond Linear Models.” The research is focused on finding ways to better address the bias issue for estimates in nonlinear models with a large number of predictors.
[Read more…]Renewed Funding Lets Hal Stern Continue Research of Early-Life Adversity, Brain Development with the UCI Conte Center
July 15, 2019 

In 2013, with a grant from the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), UCI established the Conte Center to explore how early-life experiences influence brain programming, which can in turn affect mental resilience or vulnerability. The original five-year award funded a series of projects focused on the connection between childhood adversity (in particular, fragmented and unpredictable signals from caretakers) and adolescent emotional and cognitive outcomes. The Conte Center includes two research cores — one for neuroimaging and one for biostatistics, computation and data management (BCDM) — that develop innovative methods and support the research projects.
[Read more…]Conference Honors Statistics Professor Emeritus Wesley Johnson
May 28, 2019 
When Statistics Professor Emeritus Wesley Johnson first learned about the MiDaS 2019 Workshop on Novel Statistical Methods for Complex Data, he assumed it was a meeting of researchers involved with the International Society for Bayesian Analysis (ISBA). In reality, the conference, hosted by the Center for the Discovery of Structures in Complex Data (MiDaS) at the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile, was held to honor Johnson and celebrate his countless contributions to the field of Bayesian statistics.
[Read more…]ICS Students Win Best Web App at HackSC
May 21, 2019 
Last month at HackSC, a large-scale hackathon held at USC, the winner of the “Best Mobile or Web App” went to Align. Created by a team of students from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), the app helps people create interest-driven support groups.
[Read more…]« Previous Page
1
…
7
8
9
10
11
…
15
Next Page »



Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







