https://www.stat.uci.edu/news/page/7




News 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
UCI Launches New Professional Program: Master of Data Science
November 17, 2020 
“Data scientist” is third on Glassdoor’s list of the “50 Best Jobs in American for 2020,” which shouldn’t be too surprising given the rise of big data and growing demand for empirical-based decision making across many industries. To help meet this demand, the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) is currently accepting applications for the new Master of Data Science (MDS) program it is launching in the fall of 2021. Anyone interested in joining the inaugural cohort of this 15-month professional graduate program can apply online. The early application deadline is December 15th, 2020. After that, applications will be accepted on a rolling basis until April 15th, 2021.
[Read more…]A Campus Gem: UCI’s Statistical Consulting Services
October 15, 2020 

If you’re a campus researcher who hasn’t yet taken advantage of UCI’s statistical consulting services, you’re missing out on a valuable resource. UCI’s Center for Statistical Consulting (CSC), which works in collaboration with the more medical- and clinical-focused Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Research Design (BERD) unit within the Institute for Clinical and Translational Sciences (ICTS), can help address any of your data analysis needs. With services such as grant proposal development, sample size calculation, data interpretation, biostatistical education and research database design, CSC/BERD is your one-stop shop for everything from study design to final presentation.
[Read more…]Orange County Business Journal: “UCI Forecasts COVID-19 Trends in OC”
October 1, 2020 
A partnership led by the University of California-Irvine has unveiled another resource on the coronavirus pandemic in Orange County, with a new focus on tracking the spread of the disease and forecasting future trends.
The website, released this week, estimates “current and future numbers of infectious individuals in Orange County, which is important for understanding risks of getting infected,” said Vladimir Minin, UCI professor of statistics and associate director of the UCI Infectious Disease Science Initiative.
Read the full story at Orange County Business Journal.
KUCI Office Hours Podcast: “Keeping Up with Coronavirus Statistics” (Vladimir Minin interviewed)
September 28, 2020 
When the pandemic hit, UC Irvine professor of statistics Vladimir Minin began moving quickly into action. Working with his colleagues, he developed two websites to display numbers of COVID-19 cases and deaths in Orange County and all of California. Join us as we discuss trends of cases, how to understand statistics, and his process of collecting information and presenting it to the public. The websites can be reached here (https://www.stat.uci.edu/covid19/index.html) and here (https://www.stat.uci.edu/oc_covid_model/index.html).
Listen to the podcast at KUCI: Office Hours.
UCI statisticians release new online Orange County COVID-19 information resource
September 15, 2020 
A months-long collaboration between the University of California, Irvine, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the Orange County Health Care Agency has resulted in a new Orange County COVID-19 website that tracks the spread of the disease and forecasts future trends.
By feeding county data into a coronavirus transmission model, the site estimates “current and future numbers of infectious individuals in Orange County, which is important for understanding risks of getting infected,” said Vladimir Minin, UCI professor of statistics and associate director of the UCI Infectious Disease Science Initiative.
[Read more…]ICS Statistics Researchers Release New Online ‘OC COVID Situation Report’
September 9, 2020 
A new website reports on the spread of COVID-19 in Orange County and forecasts future trends.
A months-long collaboration among UCI, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), and the Orange County Health Care Agency (OCHCA) has resulted in a new portal that reports on the spread of COVID-19 in Orange County and forecasts future trends.
[Read more…]Orange County Business Journal: “UCI releases COVID-19 website”
August 12, 2020 
The University of California, Irvine, which has been privately tracking and analyzing local coronavirus figures since the onset of the pandemic, has released a public online database about the virus in the county that provides comparisons with neighboring California counties. The website shows hospitalized patients with COVID-19, intensive care unit patients, new daily cases and new daily deaths caused by the disease, and provides comparisons between Orange County and Alameda, Los Angeles, San Diego and Santa Clara counties. This is the first website to provide county-to-county comparisons of key coronavirus statistics, according to UCI.
Read the full article at Orange County Business Journal. A subscription may be required; You can request an electronic copy of the article by sending an email to communications@uci.edu.
Yahoo News: “Data Glitch Confounds Coronavirus Totals In Orange County, State” (Vladimir Minin quoted)
August 11, 2020 
UC Irvine has some other ideas on how to study the data trends. It is a professor of statistics who is leading a team intent on studying the trends of coronavirus in our area. Vladimir Minin, a professor of statistics, leads the team responsible for designing and developing UCI’s new COVID-19 statistical trends website.
Read the full story at Yahoo News.
UCI News: “UCI researchers launch first-of-its-kind coronavirus statistics portal”
August 10, 2020 
Scientists at the University of California, Irvine have unveiled a public website that provides up-to-date statistics on coronavirus infections in Orange County, with comparisons to neighboring and other California counties.
[Read more…]Professor Annie Qu Works to Enhance the Detection of Invasive Cancers Using Medical Imaging Data
August 6, 2020 
Recent technology advancements have catalyzed the rapid growth of large volumes of biomedical data with complex structures — particularly medical imaging data. The sheer volume and relatively unstructured nature of imaging data, coupled with its ability to carry significant amounts of information on disease status and treatment outcomes, exemplify the double-edged sword of big data for the medical world. Although more data is being collected to develop sophisticated statistical models and to train and test machine learning algorithms, the amount of useful information extracted is not necessarily proportional to the size of the data.
[Read more…]« Previous Page
1
…
5
6
7
8
9
…
15
Next Page »



Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







