https://www.stat.uci.edu/news/page/5




News 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Statistics Ph.D. Student Tianyu Pan Wins Two Competitive Awards
November 9, 2021 

Tianyu Pan, a statistics Ph.D. student in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), recently won two competitive awards. Pan was one of 16 students worldwide to receive the 2021 Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS) Hannan Graduate Student Travel Award and one of five U.S. recipients of the 2021 IBM Student Research Award from the New England Statistical Society.
The first award provides funds for travel to any IMS-sponsored or co-sponsored meeting, while the second award offers recipients the opportunity to present their work at the New England Statistics Symposium.
[Read more…]Elizabeth Lee Wins Data Science for Social Good Award
October 19, 2021 
UCI data science major Elizabeth Lee is the 2021 recipient of the Richard and Patricia Utts Data Science for Social Good Award. First established in 2019 by Statistics Professor Emerita Jessica Utts, the award comes with a $5,000 scholarship in support of leveraging data science to make the world a better place.
[Read more…]Stephan Mandt and Collaborators Receive $3.5 Million to Study Machine Learning for Climate Science
October 9, 2021 
The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) recently awarded $16 million to five research projects developing artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms to enable greater scientific insight and new discoveries. “Disruptive technology changes are occurring across science applications, algorithms, architectures, and high-performance computing ecosystems,” said Barbara Helland, the DOE Office of Science’s associate director for advanced scientific computing research. “These projects explore potentially high-impact approaches in AI and machine learning to assist and automate scientific discovery and data analysis for increasingly complex problems.”
[Read more…]Harnessing the Data Revolution: ICS Researchers and Collaborators Receive $1.5M Data Science Grant
August 31, 2021 
Babak Shahbaba
When Statistics Professor Babak Shahbaba took over as director of the Data Science Initiative, coordinating UCI faculty and students involved in data science activities, the plan was to broaden the initiative’s reach in terms of education, research and external relations. This plan motivated the creation of the Californian Data Experience Transformation (CADET) program, which aims to offer data science training via curriculum development, hands-on experiences, and close interactions with both academic and non-academic organizations.
[Read more…]Lifetime Achievement and Dinsdale Awards: Double the Accolades for Professor Emerita Jessica Utts
August 20, 2021 
This summer, Professor Emerita Jessica Utts of UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) was recognized with two prestigious awards, highlighting her tremendous contributions related to the field of statistics.
[Read more…]UCI News: “UCI-led study finds disparities in O.C. rates of COVID-19 infection, mortality” (Vladimir Minin mentioned)
August 19, 2021 
Socioeconomic, geographic and demographic factors all played critical roles in the risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19 mortality among Orange County residents last year, according to a study led by the University of California, Irvine. The findings, published in the journal Emerging Infectious Diseases, show that some groups were more likely to test positive and die from the virus. Furthermore, risk factors for infection shifted over time.
Read the full story on UCI News.
From Theory to Practice: UCI’s Machine Learning Hackathon Delivers
August 13, 2021 
For decades, UCI has been known for its impressive Machine Learning Repository. With more than 580 publicly accessible datasets, the repository serves as a tremendous resource for empirical and methodological research in machine learning. It also serves as a great learning tool for UCI students, thanks to the second annual ML Hackathon, a student competition funded by the National Science Foundation. The UCI research community donated nine challenge datasets from the repository for the event and the Research Cyberinfrastructure Center (RCIC) provided the computational resources.
[Read more…]CHOC teams up with UCI to offer pediatric capstone project in data science
August 12, 2021 

The CHOC Research Institute, in partnership with UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), will launch a new data science pediatric capstone project that will explore innovative, data-driven approaches to improve pediatric health and train the next generation of leaders in the field of healthcare data sciences.
[Read more…]Mine Dogucu Receives Young Investigator Award
August 10, 2021 

On Aug. 9, 2021, at the Joint Statistical Meetings (JSM) conference, Assistant Professor of Teaching Mine Dogucu received the Young Investigator Award. Given annually by the American Statistical Association (ASA) Teaching of Statistics in the Health Sciences (TSHS) section, the award recognizes a promising educator in statistics. “I am thankful for the support I receive from the statistics education community in Teaching Statistics and Health Sciences section and the broader American Statistical Association,” says Dogucu, whose work in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) focuses on curriculum development and modernization.
[Read more…]Qu Appointed IMS Program Secretary
July 28, 2021 

The Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS) Council approved the appointment of Annie Qu as IMS program secretary for the term of Sept. 8, 2021 to Aug. 14, 2024, as recommended by the Committee to Select Administrative Officers. Qu is Chancellor’s Professor in the Department of Statistics at the University of California, Irvine.
[Read more…]« Previous Page
1
…
3
4
5
6
7
…
15
Next Page »



Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







