https://www.stat.uci.edu/news/page/4




News 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Women’s History Month: Resources for Empowering Women in Tech
March 2, 2022 
In honor of Women’s History Month, the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) has pulled together a list of resources for empowering women in technology, including on-campus groups, nationwide organizations and books that focus on women in STEM. We also highlight current leaders in tech and introduce you to some faculty members leading the way in expanding ICS education.
[Read more…]Statistics Ph.D. Student Isaac Goldstein Receives La Verne Noyes Fellowship
February 23, 2022 

On Feb. 10, 2022, a La Verne Noyes Fellowship was awarded to third-year statistics Ph.D. student Isaac Goldstein of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS). Named in honor of inventor La Verne Noyes, the fellowship provides a $4,000 stipend to graduate students who demonstrate outstanding academic achievement and are descendants of World War I U.S. Army or Navy veterans.
[Read more…]UCI News: “UCI announces launch of Institute for Precision Health”
February 15, 2022 
Individually tailored wellness approach is giant leap in patient control, improved outcomes
Irvine, Calif., Feb. 15, 2022 — The University of California, Irvine today announced the launch of the Institute for Precision Health, an endeavor that marries UCI’s powerhouse health sciences, engineering, machine learning, artificial intelligence, clinical genomics and data science capabilities to deliver the most effective health and wellness strategy for each individual person and, in doing so, confronts the linked challenges of health equity and the high cost of care.
[Read more…]Black History Month: Sharing Resources to Expand Diversity in Tech
February 2, 2022 
Last year, in honor of Black History Month, the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) highlighted pioneers in science and technology (see Part I and Part II of the post). This year, we’ve pulled together a list of resources, including on-campus groups here at UCI. We also list some nationwide organizations and books that focus on diversity and race in technology, as well as spotlight some Black leaders in computer science and engineering, both on and off campus.
[Read more…]4 ICS Professors Among 7 UCI Researchers Named AAAS Fellows
January 27, 2022 
On Jan. 26, 2022, UCI announced seven new faculty members had been named fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) — an association that “seeks to advance science, engineering, and innovation throughout the world for the benefit of all people.” AAAS Fellows are “a distinguished cadre of scientists, engineers and innovators who have been recognized for their achievements across disciplines, from research, teaching, and technology, to administration in academia, industry and government, to excellence in communicating and interpreting science to the public.”
Among the seven new inductees at UCI are four researchers from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS): Rina Dechter of the Department of Computer Science, Paul Dourish of the Department of Informatics, Annie Qu of the Department of Statistics, and Padhraic Smyth of both the Department of Computer Science and Department of Statistics. Congratulations to these four esteemed researchers for achieving this lifetime honor.
[Read more…]Xu Receives SLDS Student Paper Award
January 26, 2022 

Statistics Ph.D student Qi Xu’s paper, “Crowdsourcing utilizing subgroup structures of latent factor modeling,” was one of five winning papers recognized recently by the Statistical Learning and Data Science (SLDS) Section of the American Statistical Association. The SLDS hosts an annual student paper competition that is extremely competitive, this year selecting only five student papers from more than 85 submissions. As one of the award recipients, Xu’s paper will be presented at the 2022 Joint Statistical Meetings in August during a special topic-contributed session. Xu’s current research interests are latent factor modeling and deep learning, and their application in crowdsourcing and personalized medicine. His thesis advisor is Chancellor’s Professor of Statistics Annie Qu.
Tech Trends for 2022
January 10, 2022 
ICS Professors Daniel Epstein, Mohsen Imani and Tianchen Qian discuss their research and the technological developments they expect in the coming year.
The new year starts with healthcare front and center, as COVID-19 continues to impact people’s daily lives. Throughout the pandemic, the fields of computer science, informatics and statistics have all played an important role in helping people move their lives online, stay connected, and analyze vast amounts of data for informed decision making. How will these fields continue to advance virtual and augmented spaces, find new ways to bring people together, and improve healthcare analytics and interventions in the coming year?
[Read more…]Graduate Student Spotlight: MDS Ambassador Adelynn Paik Shares Her Academic, Professional Goals
December 8, 2021 

Women have been historically underrepresented in STEM, and that trend continues today — the Pew Research Center found that women make up 25% of computing occupations and girls make up approximately 30% of AP Computer Science test-takers. Girls and women face a number of challenges in the STEM field, which is why UCI’s Master of Data Science program aims to make STEM more accessible to underrepresented groups.
[Read more…]Disney Research Supports Stephan Mandt’s Work on Generative Modeling with $50,000 Gift
December 1, 2021 

Stephan Mandt, an assistant professor of computer science and statistics in UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), received an unrestricted gift of $50,000 from Disney Research Los Angeles to support his work on generative modeling.
Mandt is exploring how to use machine learning under resource constraints — in particular, given a lack of relevant training data. “In other words, how might you train a deep learning algorithm to mimic speech when you don’t have massive amounts of available speech recordings?”
[Read more…]Beyond the T-Test: UCI Professors Publish New Statistical Guidance for Neuroscience Research
November 16, 2021 
A multidisciplinary team of researchers from the University of California, Irvine has published a new guide for statistical analysis in neuroscience research. Faculty from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) and from the Center for Neural Circuit Mapping (CNCM) in the School of Medicine (SOM) collaborated on the paper, “Beyond T-Test and ANOVA: Applications of Mixed-Effects Models for More Rigorous Statistical Analysis in Neuroscience Research,” published Nov. 15, 2021 in Neuron. The paper provides a readable primer to neuroscience experimentalists who do not have extensive or up-to-date training in statistics.
[Read more…]« Previous Page
1
2
3
4
5
6
…
15
Next Page »



Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







