https://www.stat.uci.edu/news/page/6




News 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
The Resilience of the Class of 2021
June 24, 2021 
UCI’s 56th annual commencement, though not unique in marking the university’s now second ever virtual ceremony, nevertheless represented something extraordinary. “The class of 2021 will have a unique place in our institutional memory as the most resilient and responsive class we have ever had the privilege of teaching,” said Chancellor Howard Gillman during his opening remarks. “Under the most extraordinary circumstances, you rose to the occasion, supported each other, adapted and persisted.”
[Read more…]Capstone Program Showcases Growing Talent of ICS Students
June 22, 2021 
The first incarnation of the capstone course in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) was in 2009, with 19 students from the Department of Informatics working on five project teams. Now, more than a decade later, the Informatics capstone course is offered three times a year, and ICS has added undergraduate capstone courses for its computer science and data science majors. It also offers capstone courses through its Master of Human-Computer Interaction and Design (MHCID), Master of Computer Science (MCS) and Master of Software Engineering (MSWE) professional programs. Even with the global pandemic moving people out of classrooms and offices and into online spaces this past year, more than 130 ICS capstone projects were successfully completed.
[Read more…]A bold decision to study abroad in high school led Sirui Hu to UCI and beyond (Data Science major)
June 7, 2021 

For her junior year of high school, Sirui Hu decided to take a step outside her comfort zone – a big one. The Shenzhen, China teen went abroad her junior and senior year and landed in Orange County. And when her high school offered a joint summer program that brought her to UCI to explore campus and meet new students, she fell in love with the campus and its inclusive culture.
[Read more…]Teach Access Recognizes Mine Dogucu as Curriculum Development Awardee
June 3, 2021 

On May 20, 2021, Assistant Professor of Teaching Mine Dogucu was named one of 15 Teach Access Curriculum Development Awardees for 2021-2022. Teach Access is a collaboration among educators, industry leaders, and disability advocacy organizations that aims to support faculty across the country teaching accessible technology design and development to undergraduates. The Curriculum Development Award comes with $5,000 in funding for creating modules, presentations, exercises or curriculum enhancements that introduce the fundamentals of accessible design in classroom-based courses.
[Read more…]UCI News: “Efforts to treat COVID-19 patients chronicled in UC Health medications data” (Bin Nan mentioned)
May 21, 2021 
A record of medicine utilization patterns assembled by an interdisciplinary team of researchers at the University of California, Irvine and the UC San Diego School of Medicine reveals the thought, care and scientific rigor clinicians at UC Health medical centers applied in their treatment of patients with COVID-19 in 2020.
Read the full story at UCI News.
Exploring and Strengthening Sports Stats at UCI
April 30, 2021 

Were you intrigued by the movie “Moneyball,” portraying the Oakland Athletics’ rise to fame in 2002 through the novel use of baseball statistics? Did you question how basketball teams were favored during this year’s March Madness? Have you ever wondered if there’s really a career path in sports related to UCI’s data science major? If so, the webinar series being offered by the Sport Statistics Group @UCI through the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) should be of interest to you. The next webinar, to be held on May 21, 2021, will feature Brendan Kent, a senior business data analyst at DraftKings and creator and host of the Measurables podcast.
[Read more…]UCI News: “Hal S. Stern is named UCI provost and executive vice chancellor”
April 16, 2021 
Hal S. Stern, former dean of the Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences and founding chair of the Department of Statistics, has been appointed provost and executive vice chancellor of the University of California, Irvine, effective immediately. He will report to Chancellor Howard Gillman.
[Read more…]Three ICS Students Receive 2021 NSF Graduate Research Fellowships
April 8, 2021 
Three students from UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) were recently awarded a National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship: Elizabeth Ankrah, Adam Birnbaum and Emani Dotch.
The Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) recognizes and supports outstanding graduate students in STEM disciplines across the U.S. Recipients receive a three-year annual stipend of $34,000, as well as $12,000 paid directly to the university to cover tuition and fees. The GRFP has a history of selecting recipients who go on to achieve high levels of success, and the promising work of these ICS recipients shows great potential in positively impacting society.
[Read more…]Amstat News: “Celebrating Women in Statistics 2021” (Annie Qu mentioned)
March 15, 2021 
In honor of Women’s History Month, we are celebrating 15 ASA women who work in statistics and data science. These accomplished women were chosen because they mentor and influenced other women in their field. Read their biographies and find out why they chose statistics, who influenced them, and what they have accomplished.
Read the full story at Amstat News.
A Look at Health and Technology Trends for 2021 and Beyond
January 15, 2021 
The fields of computer science, informatics and statistics have been influencing healthcare for decades, and 2020 served as an important reminder of the critical role both healthcare and technology play in people’s daily lives. The COVID-19 pandemic put a spotlight on healthcare, while stay-at-home orders significantly boosted technology use in general and telehealth practices in particular. Looking to the new year ahead, how might the connections between technology and health become further entwined, and how will this impact the future of healthcare? Here to address these questions are three professors from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS):
[Read more…]« Previous Page
1
…
4
5
6
7
8
…
15
Next Page »



Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







