https://www.stat.uci.edu/news/page/8




News 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Hal Stern Selected as a Fellow of the International Society of Bayesian Analysis
June 29, 2020 
Interim Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor Hal Stern is one of nine new fellows selected by the International Society of Bayesian Analysis (ISBA). Stern, a Chancellor’s Professor of Statistics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), was recognized “for extraordinary contributions to Bayesian theory and methodology; for advancing Bayesian thinking and the principled use of Bayesian methods in a wide range of disciplines, and for his outstanding service to the profession through editorial and administrative positions.”
[Read more…]UCI News: “National institute awards $20 million in renewed funding to forensic science center”
May 18, 2020 
The National Institute of Standards and Technology has awarded $20 million in renewed funding to the Center for Statistics and Applications in Forensic Evidence, an interdisciplinary group of more than 60 participants at the University of California, Irvine and five other U.S. institutions of higher education.
[Read more…]Michelle Nuño Selected to Participate in the 70th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting
May 13, 2020 

Statistics Ph.D. candidate Michelle Nuño was selected to participate in the 70th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting taking place in Lindau, Germany. Each year, around 30 to 40 Nobel Laureates convene in Lindau to meet the next generation of leading scientists: 600 undergraduates, Ph.D. students and post-doc researchers from all over the world.
[Read more…]UCI Mind: “Alzheimer’s Disease, Clinical Trials, And COVID-19 With Dr. Daniel Gillen”
May 4, 2020 
This monthly series features short talks and Q&A with experts from the University of California, Irvine Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders (UCI MIND), 1 of 32 congressionally designated Alzheimer’s Disease Research Centers in the nation. Join UCI MIND on Facebook (@UCIrvineMIND) to learn about advances in research to improve Alzheimer’s disease diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.

Watch the video on YouTube.
UCI Brain: “Researcher Spotlight: Dr. Babak Shahbaba”
April 28, 2020 

Using statistical methods is a common discomfort for most graduate students. However, for Dr. Babak Shahbaba, a professor of statistics, utilizing nonparametric Bayesian methods is his passion. 
[Read more…]NSF Announces 2020 Graduate Research Fellows
April 13, 2020 
The National Science Foundation (NSF) recently announced recipients of its Graduate Research Fellowship, including three students from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS): Alex James Boyd, Derenik Haghverdian and Lucy Pei.
[Read more…]Amstat News: “Celebrating Rising Undergraduate Women in Statistics and Data Science”
March 3, 2020 
Featured in the poster pull-out in the print issue of Amstat News are four up-and-coming undergraduate women in statistics and data science, including ICS Data Science Undergraduate Taneisha Arora.
Read the article at Amstat News.
Statistics Ph.D. Student Mary Ryan Receives Public Impact Fellowship
December 20, 2019 

Statistics Ph.D. student Mary Ryan has been awarded a 2019-2020 Public Impact Fellowship, which supports graduate students whose research “demonstrates the potential to significantly improve or enrich the lives of Californians and/or national and global communities.” With her research into statistical methodology related to identifying biomarkers in Alzheimer’s disease, the impact of her work has far-reaching potential. The debilitating neurodegenerative disorder currently affects approximately 5.6 million Americans over the age of 65, and that number is projected to reach 13.8 million by 2050.
[Read more…]Professor Berrocal Elected Chair of the Section in Environmental Sciences of the ISBA
December 10, 2019 

Statistics Associate Professor Veronica Berrocal was recently elected to a three-year term as chair of the Section in Environmental Sciences (EnviBayes) of the International Society of Bayesian Analysis (ISBA). EnviBayes promotes research and education in Bayesian methods in environmental sciences, organizing conferences and workshops and developing short courses for students and practitioners. It also encourages academics to work with environmental and public health organizations.
[Read more…]Staff Spotlight: Rosemary Busta’s Journey from Chemistry to Statistics to Scotland and Beyond
December 4, 2019 

The Department of Statistics has never known life without Rosemary Busta. Having helped build the department from the ground up, she has been here from the very beginning — even before that, in fact. Prior to taking on the new Statistics Department Manager role in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) back in 2002, she began her UCI career as an administrative assistant in the Department of Chemistry. Now, after more than 20 years of service at UCI, she is getting ready to retire.
[Read more…]« Previous Page
1
…
6
7
8
9
10
…
15
Next Page »



Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







