https://www.stat.uci.edu/news/page/14




News 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Ph.D. Students Gao and Cruz receive ASA paper awards
January 27, 2017 Congratulations to Statistics Ph.D. students Xu Gao and Maricela Cruz who both recently received best paper awards from the American Statistical Association (ASA). Gao was recognized for his paper, “Evolving State-Space Models with Applications to Local Field Potentials.” Cruz was recognized for her paper on healthcare data titled, “A robust interrupted time series model for analyzing complex healthcare intervention data.” They will have the opportunity to present their papers at the Joint Statistical Meetings (JSM 2017) in August 2017.
Gao recently won the Eastern North American Region (ENAR) International Biometrics Society’s Distinguished Student Paper Award competition in January 2017., while Cruz is a fellow of the prestigious National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship (NSF GRF).
Ombao, UCI Space-Time Modeling Group contribute to new Handbook of Neuroimaging Data Analysis
January 4, 2017 Several members of the UC Irvine Space-Time Modeling Group contributed to the recent release of the Handbook of Neuroimaging Data Analysis, which was published in November 2016 by Chapman and Hall/CRC. Statistics Professor and American Statistical Association Fellow Hernando Ombao served as one of the book’s editors, while Chee-Ming Ting, Carolina Euan, Lechuan Hu, Yuxiao Wang and Anna Schroeder were contributing co-authors for the 662-page handbook. In addition to Ombao, the handbook’s other editors were Martin Lindquist form Johns Hopkins University, Wesley Thompson from UC San Diego, and John Aston from the University of Cambridge.
[Read more…]
Statistics Ph.D. Students Wang, Gao win ENAR Distinguished Paper Awards
January 4, 2017 Two Ph.D. students from the UC Irvine’s Department of Statistics, Yuxiao Wang and Xu Gao, were recently named winners in the Eastern North American Region (ENAR) International Biometrics Society’s 2017 Distinguished Student Paper Award competition.
[Read more…]
3 ICS researchers named AAAS fellows
November 21, 2016 Ramesh Jain, Hal Stern and Gene Tsudik are recognized by the American Association for the Advancement of Science for contributions to their fields.
 [Read more…]
Los Angeles Times: “Why giving people $5 to take a government survey is money well spent” by Jessica Utts
October 26, 2016 To the editor: There has been a lot of research on incentives over the years; it is clear that they improve response rates to surveys, that nothing works as well as cash for this purpose, and that incentives often pay for themselves by reducing the number of attempts interviewers have to make to get people to respond. (“Your tax dollars at work: $5 bribes to take a government survey,” Oct. 21)
Read more at latimes.com 
Nuno, Pluta receive graduate statistics award
October 13, 2016  The two Ph.D. students were honored with Robert L. Newcomb Memorial Endowed Graduate Student Award
[Read more…]
ICS welcomes four new faculty members for fall 2016 quarter
September 10, 2016 The UC Irvine Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences hired four new faculty members who started in the fall 2016 quarter. All of them are recognized leaders in their communities and will help ICS maintain its strength in a broad array of information and computer science domains. Please help us welcome these talented researchers: 
 [Read more…]
New dean named for ICS
August 3, 2016 Entrepreneur Marios Papaefthymiou, current chair of computer science & engineering at the University of Michigan, will begin his term as dean Jan. 1, 2017.
[Read more…]
NSF awards Professor Shahbaba, UCI team $250K for big data analysis research
July 15, 2016 Associate Professor of Satistics Babak Shahbaba, together with co-principal investigators Hongkai Zhao and Jeffrey Streets from UCI’s Department of Mathematics, have received $250,000 from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for their project, “Theory and practice for exploiting the underlying structure of probability models in big data analysis.” According to Shahbaba, the project aims to “develop a theoretical framework to study underlying structures of statistical models and use this framework in practice to design efficient and scalable computational methods and algorithms for Bayesian inference.”
[Read more…]
Stern receives DeGroot Prize for “Bayesian Data Analysis”
July 8, 2016 Professor of Statistics Hal Stern—together with his coauthors Andrew Gelman, John B. Carlin, David B. Dunson, Aki Vehtari and Donald B. Rubin—has received the DeGroot Prize for his book, Bayesian Data Analysis.
[Read more…]
« Previous Page
1
…
12
13
14
15
Next Page »



Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







