https://www.stat.uci.edu/news/page/3




News 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Inaugural ICS Summer Academy on Data Analytics Now Accepting Applications
April 25, 2022 
High school students interested in learning about computer science in a college setting can now apply to UCI’s inaugural Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) Summer Academy. For 2022, the ICS Summer Academy will be offering a two-week session titled, “DATA — Data Analytics: Theory & Applications.” From July 25 to Aug. 5, high school students will be on campus Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., exploring the foundations of data science with real-world, hands-on projects.
[Read more…]Dr. Joni Ricks-Oddie Applies Data-Driven Lens in Run for Long Beach City Council
April 20, 2022 

In the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), Joni Ricks-Oddie is known as director of the UCI Center for Statistical Consulting, the “one-stop shop” for the UCI community and affiliated organizations needing to collaborate with a statistician. Ricks-Oddie, who earned her Ph.D. in epidemiology from UCLA, helps researchers at UCI, Chapman University, Children’s Hospital of Orange County, and other organizations develop grant proposals, calculate sample sizes, interpret data and design research databases.
[Read more…]Applications Open for New UCI Summer Biostatistics Institute for Undergraduate Students
April 4, 2022 
Are you an undergraduate student who would like to gain hands-on experience in analyzing data collected from biomedical studies to help prevent and treat various diseases? Are you curious about career options and graduate degree opportunities in biostatistics and biomedical data science? If so, UCI is now accepting applications for its new Irvine Summer Institute in Biostatistics and Undergraduate Data Science (ISI-BUDS).
[Read more…]ICS Graduate Programs in Statistics and Computer Science Among Top 20 for Public Universities
April 1, 2022 

On March 29, 2022, U.S. News & World Report released its annual graduate school rankings, and UCI had 11 programs place in the top 20 for public universities. Among those were the computer science and statistics graduate programs in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS).
[Read more…]MDS Student TY Shao Aims to Make an Impact in Healthcare
April 1, 2022 

Technological advancements are a major reason why the healthcare industry is a field that can constantly evolve to support the ever-changing needs of patients. One of these technologies is data science, which TY Shao believes can spur beneficial discoveries and change in healthcare.
Shao is a graduate student and program ambassador of UCI’s Master of Data Science program and plans to utilize her data science education in healthcare because the medical field “is really close to [her] heart.”
[Read more…]Culture of Collaboration Leads to Cutting-Edge Work in AI
March 29, 2022 
Recently, UCI announced that researchers had developed a hybrid human-machine framework for AI systems that can complement human expertise:
From chatbots that answer tax questions to algorithms that drive autonomous vehicles and dish out medical diagnoses, artificial intelligence undergirds many aspects of daily life. Creating smarter, more accurate systems requires a hybrid human-machine approach, according to researchers at the University of California, Irvine. In a study published this month in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, they present a new mathematical model that can improve performance by combining human and algorithmic predictions and confidence scores.
The seeds for this cutting-edge work by researchers in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) and the School of Social Sciences were first planted decades ago. This collaboration started with Padhraic Smyth, Chancellor’s Professor in the Computer Science and Statistics Departments, and Mark Steyvers, a professor in the Department of Cognitive Sciences.
[Read more…]UCI News: “UCI’s Graduate Programs Shine in U.S. News & World Report Rankings”
March 29, 2022 
Computer Science and Statistics graduate programs are in the top 20 among public universities.
The University of California, Irvine’s graduate programs in education and chemistry place in the nation’s top 10 among public universities in U.S. News & World Report’s annual graduate school rankings, published online today. Nine other fields of advanced study are in the top 20 among public universities, marking UCI as one of the leading locations in the country for students to pursue graduate degrees.
[Read more…]UCI Deep Learning Researchers Advance Theory and Practice of Data Compression
March 28, 2022 
With videos now making up more than 80% of all consumer internet traffic, even the smallest improvements in compression algorithms can dramatically impact our ability to store and share information.

“It has been speculated for a long time that neural networks will ultimately revolutionize data compression technologies. Recently, such attempts have proved successful,” says Stephan Mandt, an assistant professor of computer science and statistics in UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS). Mandt has been at the forefront of this work. “Our group at UCI has been pioneering research into using neural networks to compress data.”
[Read more…]UCI News: “UCI researchers receive state funding to study pandemic forecasting”
March 16, 2022 
COVID Modeling Consortium resources designed to strengthen response to future outbreaks
UCI is one of four UC system institutions to receive COVID Modeling Consortium funding recently for projects devoted to improving our understanding coronavirus detection and impact, virus transmission and behavior, mitigation strategies and social and behavioral considerations. Led by Vladimir Minin, professor of statistics, a research team will conduct a study to improve accuracy and precision of COVID-19 forecasts and scenarios through analysis of inputs from multiple data sources.
“Reliable, accurate and timely data are key to an effective pandemic response,” said Minin, associate director of the UCI Infectious Disease Science Initiative. “Equally important is the application of those data in modelling and statistical analyses to ensure that policy makers have the tools they need to guide the right public response.”
Read the full article at UCI News.
University of California Health and CDPH COVID Modeling Consortium awards grant funding to further COVID-19 data research
March 9, 2022 
Four teams of researchers focused on COVID-19 related data analysis and modeling received grants from the University of California Health and California Department of Public Health (CDPH) COVID Modeling Consortium, an innovative consortium launched last year to ensure public health policy makers have timely, relevant analysis and insights to support pandemic-related decision making.
The areas of focus for the funding were driven by priorities set by CDPH for gaining deeper understanding of COVID-19 matters, such as disease detection and impact, virus transmission and behavior, mitigation strategies, and social and behavioral considerations.
The studies selected for the grants are designed to provide insights on COVID-19 related challenges such as forecasting, understanding disease risk for Black populations, effectiveness of K-12 school mitigation strategies, and disparities in COVID-19 vaccination acceptance. The research proposals, which together received approximately $236,000 in funding, are:
A study to improve accuracy and precision of COVID-19 forecasts and scenarios through analysis of inputs from multiple data sources by UC Irvine investigators, including Statistics Professor Vladimir Minin.
Read the full story on UC Health.
« Previous Page
1
2
3
4
5
…
15
Next Page »



Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







