https://www.stat.uci.edu/news/page/2




News 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Faculty and Staff Honored at Annual ICS Awards Celebration
June 29, 2022 
On June 7, 2022, the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) resumed its annual ICS Awards Celebration luncheon, paused during the pandemic, as faculty and staff spent an afternoon reconnecting and socializing. Dean Marios Papaefthymiou welcomed new staff, announced the recipient of the Jim McKenzie Staff Leadership Award, presented the Dean’s Faculty Awards, and recognized a variety of faculty members for recent honors and accomplishments.
[Read more…]ICS Project Expo Strengthens Industry Engagement and Showcases Student Talent
June 27, 2022 
More than 250 students from UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) showcased their talent and mingled with industry professionals on June 1, 2022, at the Second Annual ICS Project Expo. Held in the new state-of-the-art Interdisciplinary Science and Engineering Building (ISEB), the event was a culmination of months of hard work, offering the students the opportunity to present projects completed for undergraduate capstone courses in informatics, computer science and data science, as well as for the Butterworth Product Development Competition. Project sponsors and students alike look forward to this annual opportunity to highlight projects they’ve labored over throughout the year.
[Read more…]UCI Researchers Aim to Diversify Clinical Research Participation with $3.7M NIH Grant
June 22, 2022 
What is the best way to recruit participants to join a clinical studies registry, and can such registries help better diversify clinical research samples? These are two critical questions that UCI researchers are tackling with a new National Institutes of Health (NIH) grant, “Recruiting and Retaining Participants from Disadvantaged Neighborhoods in Registries.” The work will be led by Joshua Grill, professor of psychiatry and human behavior in UCI’s School of Medicine (SOM) and of neurobiology and behavior in UCI’s School of Biological Sciences (Bio Sci), and by Daniel Gillen, Chancellor’s Professor and chair of the Statistics Department in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS).
[Read more…]Qu Elected International Statistical Institute Member
June 15, 2022 

Chancellor’s Professor of Statistics Annie Qu has been named an Elected Member of the International Statistical Institute (ISI). Established in 1885, the ISI is a professional society with more than 4,500 individual and institutional members in over 150 countries. Its objective is to promote the understanding, development and good practice of statistics worldwide. An ISI Elected Membership is open to individuals who are established in their careers and have made significant contributions to the statistical profession. Qu’s research focuses on solving fundamental issues regarding unstructured large-scale data and developing cutting-edge statistical methods and theory in machine learning.
MDS Program Hosts Panel Discussion on Career Development With Data Science Leaders 
May 31, 2022 
The UCI Master of Data Science (MDS) program held a Q&A-style panel discussion on April 21 with industry leaders in data science. This discussion was held in collaboration with the Southern California R Users Group (SoCal RUG), a local forum of people who use the statistical programming language R.
Bella Feng, Sep Dadsetan and John Preach were the featured panelists. Along with Ryan Benz, the three of them shared their experiences working in the data science industry, focusing on their career development over the years.
[Read more…]Don’t Think You Can Learn Bayesian Statistics? Think Again With ‘Bayes Rules!’
May 5, 2022 
Discussing everything from chocolate milk to dating apps, and referencing shows like “Parks and Recreation” and “RuPaul’s Drag Race,” an open access book co-authored by Mine Dogucu removes barriers to learning Bayesian statistics and finds new ways to engage readers.
[Read more…]Professors Berrocal and Shahbaba Named American Statistical Association Fellows
May 4, 2022 
Two faculty members from UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) were recently named fellows of the American Statistical Association (ASA): Veronica Berrocal and Babak Shahbaba.
[Read more…]Qu Named 2024 IMS Medallion Lecturer
May 3, 2022 

The Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS) named Annie Qu, Chancellor’s Professor of statistics, as one of the 2024 IMS Medallion Awards and Lectures. Each year, eight Medallion Lecturers are chosen across all areas of statistics and probability by the IMS Committee on Special Lectures. The Medallion nomination is an honor and an acknowledgment of a significant research contribution to one or more research areas. Each Medallion Awardee and Lecturer will receive a medallion in a ceremony preceding the lecture. Professor Qu will deliver her Medallion Lecture at the 2024 Joint Statistical Meeting in Portland, Oregon.
NSF Announces 2022 Graduate Research Fellows
May 2, 2022 
Three students from UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) have been awarded a National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship: Thanasi Bakis, Pratyush Muthukumar and Samuel Showalter. Two additional ICS students, Mikaela Nishida and Hayden Freedman, received an honorable mention.
[Read more…]Professors Utts and Stern Honored with American Statistical Association Awards
April 25, 2022 
The American Statistical Association (ASA) recently recognized two faculty members from UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS): Statistics Professor Emerita Jessica Utts and Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor Hal Stern.
[Read more…]« Previous Page
1
2
3
4
…
15
Next Page »



Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







