https://www.stat.uci.edu/chairs-message




Chair’s Message 






























Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Chair’s Message
Statistics is the science concerned with developing and studying methods for collecting, analyzing, interpreting and presenting empirical data.
Statistical principles and methods are important for addressing questions in public policy, medicine, industry and virtually every branch of science.
Interest in statistical methods has increased dramatically with the abundance of large databases in fields like computer science (internet and web traffic), business and marketing (transaction records), and biology (the human genome and related data).
It is the substantial questions in the various areas of application that drive the development of new statistical methods and motivate the mathematical study of the methods’ properties.
UCI’s Department of Statistics was created in 2002 with an emphasis on research in statistical theory and interdisciplinary collaborations and is actively recruiting additional members.
The Department also intends to capitalize on existing statistical expertise in other Bren School departments as well as other schools at UCI.
Welcome to Statistics at UCI! Don’t hesitate to contact me if you have questions that are not addressed on this Web site.
Dan Gillen
Professor and Chair
Department of Statistics


Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







