https://www.stat.uci.edu/faculty/annie-qu




Annie Qu 







































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
 










Annie Qu 



Advancing Cutting-Edge StatisticsProfessor Annie Qu’s research focuses on solving fundamental issues regarding unstructured large-scale data and developing cutting-edge statistical methods and theory in machine learning. “I’m working to develop algorithms for text sentiment analysis, automatic tagging and summarization, and recommender systems,” she says. “I’m also researching tensor imaging data, working to advance network data analyses for complex heterogeneous data, and finding ways to extract essential information from large volume high-dimensional data.”Detecting Invasive CancersOne of Professor Qu’s research topics is motivated by multimodal multiphoton optical breast cancer imaging data. The advanced multimodality multiphoton imaging provides visualization of spatial dynamics of tumor-associated microvesicles. “My team and I integrate cutting-edge optical imaging techniques, statistical modeling, machine learning and computational tools to identify tumor-associated microvesicles at various stages of cancer,” she says. “Our research empowers analysis of complex-structured multimodal imaging data to enhance detection of invasive cancers in microenvironments.” The goal is to reduce cancer mortality and minimize medical costs in the future.Identifying Health DisparitiesProfessor Qu is also working on identifying epigenomic predictors of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and traumatic stress among African Americans. “Socially adverse experiences of discrimination and isolation have a significant impact on mental and physical health,” she explains. Currently, her team is developing individualized modeling that identifies early diagnostic epigenetic biomarkers to assess health disparities among populations exposed to traumatic stress. “The newly developed heterogeneous mediation analysis identifies DNA methylation genes associated with trauma exposure and stress-triggered mental disorders such as PTSD,” she explains. “In addition, the potential effects of methylation genes on developing Alzheimer’s disease are being discovered.” Professor Qu’s research has profound impact on the evaluation of heterogeneous socio-biologic mechanisms associated with the disparity of how trauma affects PTSD and Alzheimer’s disease among African Americans.











 




“Our research empowers analysis of complex-structured multimodal imaging data to enhance detection of invasive cancers in microenvironments.”Chancellor’s Professor aqu2@uci.edu(949) 824-9070 DBH 2212website











 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy


















