http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/i42/hw/labF.html






Lab Assignment F







Informatics 42 • Winter 2012 • David G. Kay
  • UC Irvine
 Lab Assignment F
This assignment is due at the end of lab on Wednesday, March 14. Turn in whatever you have completed by that date; since it's the end of the quarter, there isn't much leeway for later submissions.  Please read the introductory instructions carefully.

For this lab, you will implement some more
enhancements to the theme park simulator.  There are nine parts to the
assignment, each of which is independent.  You don't have to do them
in order, and you don't have to do all of them (we don't expect
anyone to do all of them).  More important than how many of the parts
you implement is that what you do implement is thorough and correct.
 Partial but correct implementations (that state clearly what they do and
don't include) will receive much more credit than attempts to do everything, but
that contain bugs or other unexpected or undocumented behavior.  It's
your choice whether you make your enhancements cumulatively (e.g., implementing
part (b) on top of the changes you made for part (a)) or independently
(i.e., starting from the base simulator for each part).

There is ample opportunity in many of these
parts for you to make design decisions in three different areas:  the precise
functionality and behavior of the enhancement, the user interface, and the
design of the code you write.  A thorough discussion of the design choices
you made in each area will contribute to your score.  In that way, a group
that thought a lot about the user interface they designed for one of the
parts, describing clearly the rationale for their design choices, may get
as high a score as a group that implemented more features (correctly) but
that followed a straightforward design approach without much analysis or
description.  We expect every group actually to implement some of these
features, but thorough consideration and description of design choices can
be as valuable as raw coding.
Along with your code, submit a short document explaining very clearly what parts of the assignment you completed correctly and including the discussion and analysis mentioned in the previous paragraph.

The simulator's home page is at http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/i42/wildride/.
 

(a)  Using the tkinter examples as
a basis, create a setup or preference panel for the simulator.  The panel
should display the default parameters, allow the user to change those values,
and include a button for starting the actual simulation.

You should allow the user to set such values
as opening time, closing time, park entrance, park exit, the name of the
customers file, the name of the rides file, and (if you implement the timer
code below) the simulation speed.  If there are other constants in the code,
consider adding them to your preference pane.
A good way to approach designing many GUIs is to start with the model/view distinction. Write a separate function to supply the information you'll want your GUI to supply, but first write an equivalent function that's text-based, prompting the user for the needed information (or calculating it). Once that text-based version works, you can write the GUI version (with the same parameters and return type).

Think about the GUI components that make the
most sense for entry of each kind of information.  "Making sense"
in this context means minimizing effort (both in terms of typing and in
terms of thinking) for the user and taking advantage of conventions that
other software follows.  

You should make your display pleasing and legible,
using the pack or grid layout manager.

(b) Implement the commands that write complete statistics out to a file; these should include the summary statistics followed by a line of statistics for each customer or each ride. Choose a format that is complete, concise, and easy to scan.

(c) Using your plan from Lab E (or
your partner's plan, or a new plan), change the simulator's tick
length from one per minute to one per second.
 Then re-run your tests (rescaling the data,
  too, of course) and see whether the results are significantly different.
(d)  Using Tkinter's Canvas widget, implement a graphical display for the overview 
  statistics printed for the customers and for the attractions.  (Bear in
  mind the general principle that every pixel should contribute to conveying
  information.  Don't get carried away with fancy decoration.)

(e)  Using Tkinter, create a real-time graphical display so that some aspect of
the simulation can be viewed while the simulation is running.  Here are
some ideas:


Display the queue length for each ride (or
selected rides)


Plot a map of the park showing the location
of each customer


Plot a map of the park showing the location
of each ride, perhaps using a color to indicate the estimated wait


(f)  Implement store-type rides as 
mentioned in the problem description.

(g)  Create a GUI for the customer-file
generator you created in Lab E.  You might integrate this with the simulator
itself, perhaps having a pane or button in the setup panel that allows the
user to generate the customer data.  You might also implement a way for
users to describe random numbers generated according to some distribution
(other than randomly across the whole space of possible values).

If you'd like to generate ride data using
a grammar-based approach and turn that into a GUI, too, go right ahead.

(h)  Change the implementation of one
or more of the data structures you identified in the Ninth Homework to make
them more efficient.  Be sure to describe your choices and their performance
relative to the original.

(i)  Create a GUI progress bar that
shows how far a simulation has come (or has to go until completion).  

The usual warnings, wisdom, and what-to-dos
apply to this assignment:


Get started early.

Read and re-read the specifications.

Do this with a partner you haven't worked
with yet this quarter and make sure Joel knows whom you're paired with.

Use Checkmate for your submissions as usual;
each pair should submit just one solution.

The usual grading criteria
for lab assignments apply.


Fill out a partner evaluation at EEE. Do this by the end of the day on Friday, March 16, or you won't get credit.



Written by David G. Kay and Jeff Ridenour,
Winter 2005; modified Winter 2006, Winter 2008, and Winter 2012.


