http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/i42/wildride/problem_description_files/index.html





Wild Ride Case Study






MR. KAY'S
  WILD RIDE
  
PROBLEM
DESCRIPTION
[This document provides an overview of the
simulation.  It discusses some details of behavior  and implementation,
but it is not a complete, formal specification document.] 
1. Introduction 

At amusement parks like Disneyland, there are
many attractions (usually rides, but also stores and restaurants).  In successful
amusement parks (also called theme parks), there are also many customers.
Customers visit one attraction after another; usually more customers want
to visit an attraction than the attraction can hold at one time, so often
customers spend time waiting in line.  

Amusement park operators pay a lot of attention
to the way customers flow through the park.  They want all the attractions
to be operating at full capacity, and they want people to spend as little
time as possible in line so they will have a good time and come back again.
 

Since hundreds of millions of dollars go into
the design of a new amusement park, it pays to plan ahead, and to predict
as accurately as possible how people will behave when the park is open.
 One good tool for this is computer simulation.
2. Simulation
Simulation is different from reality.  If we
want to know how well a newly-designed helicopter or racing schooner will
perform, we might build a prototype and try it out.  If we want to know
how many incoming freshmen will graduate in four years or less, we might
simply admit those students and keep track of them over their college careers.
 If we want to know which arrangement of rides works best, we could build
them and see what happens.  But those approaches cost a lot and take too
long. 

We can call the helicopter, the schooner, the
    students, or the amusement park a system (which means no more than "a
    group of things forming a unified whole").  We can design models of
    these systems and how they behave, simplified descriptions that leave out
    unnecessary detail (like the color of the sail or the freshman's height
    or the shape of the cars in "Mr. Toad's Wild Ride").  [Of course,
    the major pitfall in designing these models is omitting a detail that is
    not unnecessary; perhaps a freshman's height does affect his or her success
    in school.]  And we can code these models as computer programs, running
    them over and over, easily changing various values, to help predict the
    systems' performance without all the bothersome cost, time, and detail of
the real thing.  That's simulation. 

One type of simulation involves the behavior
of a population (such as the students above, but not the schooner or helicopter).
One approach to population simulation involved statistical changes to the
population as a whole (e.g., "If there's a black plague epidemic, the
population decreases by 25%").  Another approach is to represent each
individual in the population separately, by an object in a program; object-oriented
programming is a natural way to implement simulations like this.  The simulator,
then, gives each object a turn, during which the object can change its status
and possibly affect its environment.  We can call it one "round"
of the simulation when each individual object has had one turn.  The simulation
will typically continue for a specified number of rounds, or until some
condition occurs (such  as all the objects finishing their work). 
3.  This Problem 

Since Orange County is a center of theme parks,
you decide to offer a simulation service for theme park designers.  Your
first step is to design and implement the software that you will use.  

Your program will simulate two different classes
of objects: attractions and customers.  

As described below, each attraction will have
certain information, such as its location in the park, the number of customers
it can handle at once, the amount of time customers have spent waiting in
line before actually starting the ride, and the amount of time it takes
a customer to complete the ride once he or she starts it.  Each attraction
will also perform  operations such as taking the next customers in line,
releasing customers after their turn is over, informing customers how long
the wait will be, and so on. 

Each customer will start with a "wishlist"—the
list of attractions he or she wants to visit during the day, each with a
priority that indicates how important the attraction is to that customer.
 Each customer will also have some way of deciding, at any moment, which
attraction to visit next.  The customer might use a simple-minded decision
algorithm, such as "Always go to the ride with the next highest priority."
 But some customers might be more clever; they might decide to start with
the rides that are furthest from the entrance, because the crowds will be
smaller, or they might decide to postpone some rides if the wait in line
looks too long, or they might choose a lower-priority ride if it happens
to be nearby. 

When you specify each customer to the system,
you will be able to choose from a few different decision strategies; others
could be implemented.  [In fact, prospective customers who want to get the
most out of their trip will also be able to use your  service (providing
you an additional stream of income); they will be able to try out different
decision strategies and see which one works best.  In fact, we think we've
seen a web site that provides just such a planning service.]  More information
about customers appears below. 

Your program, then,
will be a simulation system that manages the two kinds of objects.  After
setting things up initially—the attractions, the customers, the opening
and closing times of the park—it will cycle through the minutes of the day.
 At each minute, it will give a turn to each customer entering the park
and each customer just leaving a ride, so they can  apply their decision
strategies, coming up with the ride to visit next. Also, every ride will
get a turn to take in some customers and release some customers, depending
on the size of its line and the amount of time it takes to go through the
attraction.   Finally, each customer who is "in transit"  from
one place to the next will move closer to his or her goal. So at the end
of each cycle, some customers will be in line for rides, some will actually
be on the rides, and some will be walking from one ride to another. 

Then, at the next minute, the whole cycle repeats
again. The simulator stops shortly after it reaches the park's closing time.
 (Since  customers might actually be on a ride at the exact time the park
closes, you have to allow time for them to finish and leave the park). At
the end of the day, the simulator prints some statistics about each customer's
visit.  

A realistic simulation might operate second-by-second
instead of a minute at a time; however, that would take 60 times the computing
power so to keep things simple, especially if we have a lot of customers,
we'll leave things on a minute-by-minute basis for now. 
4. Attractions 

Each ride will store this information:


Name

Entrance location (where in the park the ride's
entrance is)

Exit location (some rides take you from one
location to another)

How many cars are in use on the ride at present

Maximum number of people per car

Maximum number of cars the ride can handle


Parameters for loading and ride time (see below)

Queue of customers waiting in line for this
ride


Different rides load and discharge their passengers
differently; this affects the length of time it takes to complete the ride
and the number of passengers the ride can handle.

4.1.  Ride Loading Characteristics

Each ride maintains a queue of customers waiting
to ride it. At each minute, the ride may take some people from this queue
and put them on the ride, and it will take any people who have completed
the ride and send them back out into the park to decide which ride to visit
next.  This continues until closing time, after which nobody else can get
in line and the ride empties out its queue.  

At each minute, the ride has to figure out
if any cars are loaded and ready to be dispatched on the ride, if any cars
are empty and ready to load, and if any cars have completed the ride and
are ready to unload.  Different rides differ in the precise details of how
they handle their passengers; we can categorize rides as cycle rides, continuous
rides, or interval rides. 
4.1.1.  Cycle Rides

You could also call cycle rides "stop-and-go"
  rides. Everyone gets on the ride at once, the ride does what it does, and
  then everyone gets off.  Nobody is riding while people are unloading and
  the new people are loading.  A show in a theater is a cycle ride; so are
  carousels and the "Dumbo" ride at Disneyland.  To describe a cycle
    ride, you need to specify the amount of time the ride is in motion and the
    amount of time it takes to unload and load the ride.  Finally, a cycle ride
    will start as scheduled if some of its cars are empty, but it will not start
if it has no passengers at all. 

At the beginning of each cycle, the ride will
decide whether to add one more car to the ride, remove one car, or make
no change.  If the number of people waiting in line is greater than the
current capacity of the ride, and if fewer than the maximum number of cars
are in use, it will add one car.  It will remove one car from the ride if
two or more cars were empty during each of the last three cycles.   
4.1.2.  Continuous Rides

Continuous rides never stop; they are like
    a circular conveyer belt that goes around and around.  Escalators and ski
    lifts are continuous rides; so was the "Sky Ride" aerial tram
    at Disneyland.  There is no separate loading time for a continuous ride;
    it loads one car per minute and  you need only the length of the ride to
    describe it.   On a continuous ride, if an empty car is ready to leave,
    it can leave even if nobody's in it.  However, no more than one car may
leave in a single minute. 

At any minute, if more than five carloads of
people are waiting in line, the ride will add one car (up to the maximum).
 If there has been a sequence of empty cars launched that's longer than
one-third of the number of cars on the ride, then the ride will remove one
car. 
4.1.3.  Interval Rides

On an interval ride, cars are loaded, unloaded,
    and dispatched at certain set intervals. As a car pulls up to the load point,
    riders who have just completed the ride exit to their left.  Then the people
    who are waiting to ride enter the car from the right. The loaded car is
    released to the dispatch point a few yards down the line, where it is launched.
    If nobody is waiting for the ride, cars remain waiting to be loaded; on
    interval rides, no empty cars are launched.  On the other hand, no more
    than one car may be launched per minute.  To describe an interval ride,
    you need the length of the ride and the length of time it takes to unload
    and reload a car.  Subways are interval rides (except that subways have
    multiple loading points and not everybody in a car gets on and off at the
    same place); so are roller coasters, including Disneyland's "Matterhorn"
and "Space Mountain". 

At any minute, the ride will add one car to
be loaded if the number of people waiting is more than the current number
of cars could accommodate in one full circuit of the ride.  (Thus, if there
are currently 10 cars on the ride, each holding 6 people, you'll add one
car if there are more than 60 people in line.)  It will remove one car if
more than one empty car has been waiting to load for over 10 minutes.
4.2.  Other Kinds of Rides

You can imagine still other kinds of rides.
 For example, some attractions allow the customer to spend as much time
as he or she wants:  stores and museums are like this, and so is "Tom
Sawyer's Island" at Disneyland.  But for now, the simulator will not
model rides like  these. 
5. Customers 

   Each customer who enters the park has
these characteristics:


Name


Arrival time at the park


Initial wishlist of rides and priorities


Current "working agenda" of rides
  to visit


Decision strategy


Exit strategy 


5.1.  The Customer Wishlist
Each customer comes to the park with a prioritized
wishlist, listing the names of the rides the customer wants to ride  with
a priority for each ride.   Some customers may just visit each ride in priority
order and then leave the park, but customers may also have more sophisticated
ways of choosing their rides.  

Starting from the original wishlist, the customer
    creates and maintains a working agenda, another prioritized list of rides
    that can change from time to time.  Every time the customer finishes a ride,
    for example, the customer removes the ride just finished from the agenda.
    We discuss below what happens when the agenda is empty or the park's closing
    time arrives.  The customer will also keep track of which rides he or she
has visited, which may be used in deciding which ride to visit next.

The priorities are represented by integers,
with lower values indicating higher priorities (so a customer's number-one
priority comes before the number-two priority, for example). 
5.2.  Decision Strategies 

The simulator allows customers to specify one
of three strategies for choosing a next ride  (i.e., reprioritizing the
agenda so that the  next ride is at the front): 


The default strategy, following the priorities
on the original wishlist


Pick the closest ride on the wishlist first


Pick first the ride that has the shortest waiting
    time (including both walking to the ride and the estimated waiting time
  in line)


(In our park, the waiting time for any ride
is available to  the customer  from  any location; there are courtesy phones
and large message boards that keep the customers up to date, so they don't
have to walk over to a ride to see how long the wait is.)  

Other strategies could be imagined and implemented.
 

Each customer can also specify an exit strategy
that determines when the customer will leave the park: 


Head for the exit when the agenda is empty


Head for the exit at a specific time


Stay until the park closes


When the working agenda is empty, if the customer
is not yet ready to leave, the customer will refill the working agenda as
follows:  Add all the rides in the park that  the customer hasn't visited
yet, and if the agenda runs out again, add the closest 15 rides to the customer's
current location.

6.  Distance

Distances in the park are measured in "distance
units"; one unit is the distance someone can walk in one minute, which
makes calculation easy.  Locations are given in an x-y (Cartesian) coordinate
system, in which the park's entrance/exit is (0,0).  The simulator calculates
distances between rides by the straight-line Euclidean distance; it does
not take obstacles into account.  When you calculate walking times based
on distances, you should convert any non-integer distances to the next highest
integer, since the simulator keeps track of everything in whole minutes.

7.  Operation of the Simulator 

Broadly speaking, your simulator will let the
user run one or more simulations, each of which will behave as follows:


Read in descriptions of the rides and the customers
(according to the specified input format)


For each clock tick (each minute),


Check the queue at the front gate for any customers
      whose arrival time has come


Check the customers in transit for any who
      have arrived at their destination


Check each ride and, as appropriate for that
      ride, (a) launch the first loaded car that is ready to go, (b) unload any
      cars that have completed the ride, sending the finished riders back into
      transit, (c) load the available cars, and (d) decide whether to add or remove
      cars from the ride




After the park closes, print some overall statistics
  and allow the user to request other, more detailed statistics.



8.  Input
The simulator will read plain text input files,
one describing the rides and one describing the customers.  In both files,
lines with an asterisk in the first column are ignored (and thus can serve
as comments in the input) and empty lines are also ignored.  

8.1.  Input of Rides
The basic input format for rides is as follows:
    Ride_Name
    entrance_X  entrance_Y
    exit_X  exit_Y
    initial_num_of_cars  max_num_of_cars  capacity_per_car
    Ride_Type
    ride_time  loading_time

The ride type must be one of the following:
Continuous, Cycle, or Interval.  For continuous rides, no loading time is
specified.
Here is an example:
* Sample ride file
Polymorphic Paddleboats
4 1
4 1
1 2 1
Cycle
3 3
Inheritance Insanity
2 2
4 6
1 3 1
Continuous
5

8.2.  Input of Customers
The basic input format for customers is as
follows:
    Customer_name
    time_entered_hour  time_entered_minutes
    Customer_type
    Exit_strategy
    exit_time_hour  exit_time_minuts
    wish_list_priority1  wish_list_ride1
    wish_list_priority2  wish_list_ride2
    wish_list_priority3  wish_list_ride3
    ...
    wish_list_priorityN  wish_list_rideN
    ----

The customer type must be one of the following:
Closest Ride First, Highest Priority First, or Shortest Time First.  The
exit strategy must be one of the following:  Empty Wish List, Park Closing
Time, or Set Time. If the exit strategy is Set Time, the following line
must specify an exit time (both hours and minutes); for the other exit 
strategies no exit time line will appear. 

All the hour fields are based on a 24-hour
clock.

The delimiter "----",
starting in the first column, signals the end of a customer's wishlist.

Here is an example:
* Sample customer file:
John McCarthy
9 15
Closest Ride First
Empty Wish List
3 Polymorphic Paddleboats
2 Inheritance Insanity
----
Donald E. Knuth
9 25
Highest Priority First
Set Time
10 00
2 Inheritance Insanity
8 Casting Coaster
----

9.  Output

The simulator gathers a variety of statistics
on the rides and the customers.

For each customer, it keeps track of the name
of each attraction visited, and for each, the times when the customer got
in line, got onto the ride, and completed the ride.  It can also compute
the total time spent in the park, the total time spent in line, the total
time spent riding rides, and the percentage of rides on  the original wishlist
that the customer visited.   The user can also view the customer with the
most or least time in the park or in line.

For each ride, it keeps track of the total
number of  riders, the average number per minute, the minimum, maximum,
and average number of cars, and the minimum, maximum, and average line length
and waiting time.  The user can also view the attraction with the most or
fewest visitors or the longest or shortest average waiting time.

The user can also view the statistics for a
specific customer or attraction by name or write all the statistics to a
file for later review.

