https://redmiles.ics.uci.edu




David Redmiles



























David Redmiles






Skip to content
Home
Publications
Organizing
People
CV
 






Home

Dr. David Redmiles is a Professor in the Department of Informatics at the University of California, Irvine (UCI) in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS). He is the author of over 200 publications integrating the areas of software engineering, human-computer interaction, and computer-supported cooperative work. He has graduated 14 PhD students and served on the dissertation committees of over 30 other PhD students. His current research focuses on distributed and collaborative software engineering, especially the aspects of awareness and trust among collaborators. He is a member of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Computer Society. He was designated an ACM Distinguished Scientist in 2011. He earned his PhD degree in 1992 at the University of Colorado, Boulder. He holds a BS (1980) in Mathematics and Computer Science and a MS (1982) in Computer Science from the American University in Washington, D.C.
Dr. Redmiles served as General Chair of the 2016 IEEE International Conference on Global Software Engineering (ICGSE) and continues to serve on the steering committee for that conference. Previously, he served as Papers Co-Chair of the 2013 International Conference on End User Development (IS-EUD) and, for several years, served on the steering committee for that conference as well. For many years, he was involved in the IEEE/ACM Conference on Automated Software Engineering, serving on the steering committee and organizing the 2005 conference as General Chair. That research community designated him Fellow of Automated Software Engineering in 2009 and in 2010 awarded him and his co-authors the inaugural Most Influential Paper Award for their 1996 paper on software design environments. The Argo/UML system described in that paper continues to evolve as a widely adopted design tool supported by a lively open-source community (see argouml.org).
Before his doctoral studies, he worked as a research staff member at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), formerly the National Bureau of Standards (NBS), a research agency under the US Department of Commerce. After his doctorate, he was a postdoctoral researcher for two years at the University of Colorado, Boulder, and, in 1994, joined the faculty at the University of California, Irvine.
From 2004 to 2011, he chaired the Department of Informatics at UCI. During this period there was a great expansion of the faculty, facilities, and degree programs. From 2013 to 2016 he served on the UCI Council on Academic Personnel (CAP), chairing that committee in the last year of his three-year term. In 2017, he was appointed to be the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs at  ICS.








 
David Redmiles
Professor
Department of Informatics
Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
University of California, Irvine
 

Email: redmiles [at] ics [dot] uci [dot] edu
 






					David Redmiles				


Proudly powered by WordPress.







