http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kay/courses/h21/hw





Homework Assignments





ICS H21 • UC IRVINE • DAVID G. KAY • FALL 2009
Assignments

Each week there will be two separate assignments available on this web page, usually by Friday afternoon: 

Homeworks, which you will do individually over the weekend and show to the TA in lab on Monday. These will usually involve some reading and a few short problems to introduce you to a topic and help prepare you to ask questions and work in the lab the following week. 
Lab Assignments, which you will do in pairs and submit electronically at the end of your lab session the following Friday. 

The first week's lab assignment is very short so you can complete it at the first lab session on Monday, September 28.
The lab  assignments will require you to do pair programming:
  You and a classmate will work together at one computer, following specific guidelines.  This makes the scheduled lab
  hours on Monday/Wednesday/Friday particularly valuable as a time when everyone
  in the class (and the TA) is certain to be available.

We encourage you to talk with each other and
help each other understand how to do the assignments.  There are some limits,
though.  Everyone should read the  guidelines for collaboration and independent work.


Setup and HtDP Chapters 1-2, Lab Assignment 0 (due at the end of lab on September 25); First Homework
  (show your work to the TA at the start of lab on September 28);  Solutions to
most of the HtDP exercises from the homework (not the lab assignment) are available
on line; you need to log in using i41 and the password we will give you in class.  Use this link for HtDP solutions; the solutions links in the on-line textbook aren't accessible to us.
A word of caution about the solutions:  You lose the
whole benefit of the do-yourself exercises if you look at the solution before
you actually try your best to answer the question yourself.  It's all too easy just to look at
the answer and say, "Yeah, I would have gotten this." Lab Assignment 1 is due at the end of lab on Friday, October 2.

HtDP Chapters 3-8: Second Homework
 (show your work to the TA at the start of lab on October 5);  Solutions to most of the HtDP homework exercises are available on line. Second Lab Assignment (due at the end of lab on October 9).

HtDP Chapters 9-11: 
Third Homework (show your work to the TA at the start of lab on October 12);  Solutions to most of the HtDP homework exercises are available on line. Third Lab Assignment (due at the end of lab on October 16).

HtDP Chapters 12-13:
Fourth Homework (show your work to the TA at the start of lab on October 19); 
   Solutions to most of the HtDP homework exercises are available on line. 
Fourth Lab Assignment
  (due at the end of lab on October 23).

HtDP Chapters 14-18:
Fifth Homework (show your work to the TA at the start of lab on October 26);  Solutions to most of the HtDP homework exercises are available on line. Fifth Lab Assignment (due at the end of lab on October 30).


HtDP Chapters 19-24: Sixth Homework (show your work to the TA at the start of lab on November 2);
 Solutions to most of the HtDP homework exercises are available on line. 
   Sixth Lab Assignment 
  (due at the end of lab on November 6).


HtDP Chapters 25-29: Seventh Homework (show your work to the TA at the start of lab on November 9);
 Solutions to most of the HtDP homework exercises are available on line. 
  Seventh Lab Assignment (due at the end of lab on Friday, November 13.

HtDP Chapters 30-32, higher-order functions, InfxTunes program: Eighth Homework (complete this assignment by the start of lab on November 16); 
 Solutions to most of the HtDP homework exercises are available on line. 
 Eighth Lab Assignment (due at the end of lab on Wednesday, November 25—this is the day before Thanksgiving, so choose a partner whose Thanksgiving schedule is compatible with yours; if you won't be here for lab on the day before Thanksgiving, when the lab is due, pick someone who's able to work with you for a few extra out-of-lab hours before then).


HtDP Chapters 34-37, vectors of vectors:
Ninth Homework (show your work to the TA at the start of lab on November 23);
   Solutions to most of the HtDP homework exercises are available on line. 
    finish the Eighth Lab Assignment (due by the end of lab on Wednesday, November 25).


HtDP Epilogue: Tenth (and last!) Homework (no work to show to your TA this week); Ninth Lab Assignment (due at the end of lab on December 4).




David G. Kay, kay@uci.edu 

Saturday, November 21, 2009 9:57 AM



