https://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/degrees/degree_se.php



undergraduate degree in software engineering @ the bren school of information and computer sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Undergraduate / Degrees


Undergraduate degree in Software Engineering

Do you like to work in teams to develop cool new software? Are you curious to learn how the architectures of Twitter, Snapchat or Google are designed? Do you care about the quality of the software you develop? Are you not afraid of talking to people in order to learn what their needs are so you can develop better software for them? Are you a builder who might foresee having your own software company at some point?
If you answered yes to one or more of these questions, UC Irvine’s software engineering major just might be the choice for you.
What will I learn?
The B.S. in software engineering is designed around a set of core courses that introduce the fundamentals of software engineering (requirements analysis, design and testing), programming (data structures, libraries and languages), and relevant computer science concepts (algorithms, databases, networking and operating systems). From there, nearly two dozen electives offer students the chance to specialize, focusing anywhere from systems-level engineering to the human side of developing software.
Throughout the major, students gain hands-on experience in creating a variety of software systems, giving you the opportunity to use different programming languages, apply your skills to different domains and work in different teams. This culminates in the three-quarter capstone course, in which you will be part of a team that develops a real system for a real client, typically from a company or organization outside the university.
Overall, the major strongly emphasizes the design and implementation of software systems, as well as learning how to adapt to what are the continuous new circumstances of the profession — whether it is a new client and their habits, a new programming language or technology to be used or a new team and its development practices.
Careers
Software engineers are in demand everywhere. Large Internet companies, automotive and aerospace corporations, medical and health software providers, enterprise software vendors and startups are all in need of software engineers to program, design, architect and lead the development of their software projects. Business Insider, glassdoor, CNN (#3, #7, and #8), U.S. News & World Report all highlight the excellent career prospects for software engineers in terms of job satisfaction, job prospects and salary.
Of course, graduate school in software engineering, computer science, informatics, or related field is a career path that a portion of our students also choose to take after they complete the major.
Qualifications
We welcome students with a variety of backgrounds. We have had many students join who already knew how to program, and many students who did not yet know how to program. Both groups are successful in the major.
If you have an interest in solving problems, aspire to creative thinking, and have an affinity with design, software engineering can be for you.
Why software engineering at UC Irvine?

Excellence. You will be part of a world-class group of faculty and staff, who have an outstanding track record of delivering innovative educational experiences in — and beyond — the classroom.
Depth. With no fewer than ten courses dedicated to software engineering, and dozens more on topics closely surrounding it, you receive an education that prepares you very well for the many challenges that will arise in your future career.
Connections. Our alumni have gone on to study in some of the most prestigious Ph.D. programs, work for well-known, innovative corporations and found successful startups. We stay in touch with them, and can help connect you with for internships that complement your studies.
Location. Orange County has a very vibrant and diverse tech industry, and is just a mere hop away from Silicon Valley.

Detailed requirements
Please see the catalogue for a detailed description of the requirements of the Software Engineering major.
4 Year Sample Plan
More information

Prospective and current UCI students interested in learning more about the Bren School’s degree options are encouraged to contact us at
ucounsel@uci.edu.





More Undergraduate

Contact
News and Updates
Academic advising
Course updates
Academic year plan
ICS majors

GDIM FAQ page
Double major
2nd baccalaureate


ICS minors
Newly Admitted to ICS
Petitions & Forms
Policies

Academic honesty
Academic standing
Add, drop, & change options
Change of Major
Concurrent Enrollment
Coursework outside UCI
CS 199 / IN4MATX 199
Grade policy
ICS Credit by Exam
Laptop & computer use
Withdrawal/Readmission
ICS 192 Enrollment/CPT&OPT


Graduation
ICS student life
ICS Honors Program
Computing support
Title IX Resources









Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











