https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=2146



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



April 26,  2022


UCI Machine Learning Repository to Host 2022 ML Hackathon



The UCI Machine Learning (ML) Repository will host its 12-day Machine Learning Hackathon from May 18 to May 29. By participating in the hackathon, students will have the opportunity to work with real-world artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies through the UCI ML Repository. 

“I’d encourage students to participate for the opportunity to contribute to something that’s used by millions worldwide,” says Tamanna Hossain, the hackathon organizer and a computer science doctoral student. “The UCI ML Repository contains hundreds of datasets used for machine learning research and education.” 
Hackathon participants should aim to use features of the ML Repository to build projects that can be added to the repository. Students’ discoveries may be used by the larger ML community for various purposes, such as alongside relevant datasets to solve a problem. 
“Successful teams may be encouraged to continue developing their project after the event jointly with UCI’s machine learning repository research team,” the hackathon event page reads. “All participants will create open source work, allowing other teams or researchers to further their initial progress.”
The hackathon is open to UCI students of all majors and academic backgrounds, but the UCI ML Repository says having prior experience with ML will help students better succeed. Participants can work individually or in teams of up to four students and can meet with members of the repository for guidance. 
A number of features from the UCI ML Repository will be available for students to use in their hackathon projects: “visualization of datasets, automatic statistical analysis of datasets and ML methods, evaluation pipeline, dataset recommendation system, natural language processing,” among others.
“Working on a real-world use case with broad impact can be a powerful teacher and a fulfilling experience,” says Hossain. 
The winning projects will receive monetary prizes. They will also be credited as contributors to the UCI ML Repository if their submissions get incorporated into the repository website.
Registration for the ML Hackathon is open until May 16. For more information, visit the ML Hackathon page at tinyurl.com/UCI-ML-HACK. 
— Karen Phan

UCI Machine Learning Repository to Host 2022 ML Hackathon
< Previous
 Professors Utts and Stern Honored with American Statistical Association Awards
            
Next >
 UCI Celebration of Teaching Honors Three ICS Faculty Members
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











