http://www.cs.uci.edu/professor-of-teaching-in-computer-science




Professor of Teaching in Computer Science 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Professor of Teaching in Computer Science
The Department of Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine invites applications for a “Professor of Teaching in Computer Science” faculty position with security of employment. This position parallels the tenure track faculty research series starting in academic year 2017-2018.
Teaching responsibilities include teaching 6 – 7 (quarter/trimester) courses per year, for majors and non-majors (possibly including graduate computer science courses), significant curriculum development, support and assessment of best-practices for Computer Science education across the Department. Additional administrative duties will be assigned by the Chair of the Department. This position falls under the Lecturer with Security of Employment series at the University of California and requires, in addition to excellent teaching and service, that the candidate makes outstanding and recognized contributions to the development of his or her specific discipline and/or of pedagogy.
The Computer Science Department’s curricula, faculty and research focus on an array of topics including: computer architecture, system software, networking and distributed computing, data and information systems, artificial intelligence, and computer graphics; while also exploring interdisciplinary topics such as biomedical informatics, data mining, security and privacy, and ubiquitous computing. We seek outstanding candidates who hold a doctoral degree in Computer Science (or a closely related field), plus a strong interest and a proven record of excellence in teaching CS courses at the university level. Preference will be given to candidates who have innovative ideas for lecture and laboratory instruction and can make significant contributions to our program in this regard. Postdoctoral experience and a proven teaching record at the university level are highly desirable. Relevant teaching and research experience includes peer-reviewed publications of creative work and a passion for computer science education that motivates high-quality educational experiences in laboratory, lecture and field settings. We also seek candidates skilled at coordination with regional partners in industry, government and resource agencies to enhance department programs, e.g., through internship programs and off-campus learning opportunities. Grant writing in support of innovative instructional initiatives and modernization of educational facilities, while not required, will add to the strength of this position.
Additional information about the CS Department can be found at: www.cs.uci.edu
Apply online at: https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF03845
Screening of applicants will begin immediately and will continue until the position is filled.
The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy.


Latest news


Graduate Student Spotlight: Markelle Kelly Highlights the Human Side of Computer Science
October 15, 2022


UCI and BlackBerry Win NSF Convergence Accelerator Grant
October 12, 2022


BBC: “The Computer Errors From Outer Space” (Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi quoted)
October 12, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




