http://vision.ics.uci.edu/pocv2012/index.html



The Eighth IEEE Computer Society Workshop on Perceptual Organization in Computer Vision














POCV
2012

The Eighth IEEE Computer Society Workshop on Perceptual Organization in Computer Vision


      Providence, Rhode Island, USA
June 16, 2012
In Conjunction with IEEE CVPR 2012












Home


Technical Program

Program Committee

Workshop Chairs




Iasonas Kokkinos,
Ecole Centrale Paris

Charless Fowlkes, 
University of California, Irvine










NEWS

The submission deadline is now April 9th. 
The electronic submission system is now online at: https://cmt.research.microsoft.com/POCV2012.

Theme

Perceptual Organization is the process of establishing a meaningful relational
structure over raw visual data so as visual primitives arising from the common
physical cause are grouped together. A driving motivation behind perceptual
organization research in computer vision is to deliver compact representations
and to reduce the space of hypotheses for higher-level visual tasks. Since
early demonstrations in the 1980s underscored its usefulness in object
recognition, the computer vision community has seen various applications of PO
in artificial vision systems such as in figure-ground segmentation, contour
completion, stereo matching, model indexing, change detection, activity
recognition, and more. Recent progress in PO has encouraged more participation
from experts in related areas such as object recognition, texture and motion
analysis.

Because of its wide applicability, the potential payoff from perceptual
organization research is enormous.  Among the objectives of POCV is to
encourage presentation of new ideas and facilitate discussion on the future of
PO. To this end, papers introducing novel concepts will be considered for
acceptance even if they lack full experimental validation. The schedule will
include longer periods for questions and answers after each talk than CVPR to
enable dialogue and the exchange of ideas. 

This POCV workshop will place a special emphasis on works that use PO to build
a bridge between low- and high-level vision. 


Invited Speakers

Kristin Grauman, University of Texas, Austin
Pedro Felzenszwalb, Brown University
Ronen Basri, Weizmann Institute
Jitendra Malik, University of California, Berkeley


Scope
Papers are solicited in all areas of perceptual organization, including but not limited to:

 image segmentation
 contour completion
 spatiotemporal/motion segmentation
 figure-ground discrimination
 integration of top-down and bottom-up methods
 perceptual organization for object or activity detection/recognition
 unification of segmentation, detection and recognition
 biologically-motivated methods
 neural basis for perceptual organization
 learning in perceptual organization
 graphical methods
 natural scene statistics 
 evaluation methods 

This POCV workshop will place a special emphasis on works that use PO to bridge the gap between low- and high-level vision. 


Paper Submission

Submission is electronic, and must be in PDF format. Papers must not exceed 8
double-column pages. Submissions must follow standard IEEE CVPR 2-column format
of single-spaced text in 10 point Times Roman, with 12 point interline space.
All submissions must be anonymous. Please us the IEEE Computer Society CVPR
format kit.
All reviewing will be double blind, so the paper must not
include any information which allows the authors to be identified. For example,
this might require that some references to the authors' previous work be left
blank or that authors refer to their previous work in the third person. This is
not optional. Papers that provide obvious identifying information may be
rejected without review.

As per conference policy, camera ready versions of accepted papers will be
submitted to IEEE and authors must submit the IEEE copyright transfer form.
Each paper is allocated 6 pages for no additional cost. Additional pages, up to
8 total, are $100/page which must be paid with the author's registration. No
paper may be more than 8 pages.  One author of each paper must register for the
conference by the camera-ready due date, or the paper will not be included on
the conference DVD or in IEEE Explorer. There will be 1-day registration too,
if anyone wants to just attend a workshop. Otherwise the regular CVPR
registration will cover all workshops as usual.

In submitting a paper to the POCV Workshop, authors acknowledge that no paper
of substantially similar content has been or will be submitted to another
conference or workshop during the POCV review period. Dual submission of 
accepted CVPR papers allowed as long as there is at least 30% new content


Important Dates

 Submission deadline: 11:59pm PST, April 9, 2012
 Reviews Due: April 22, 2012
 Notification: April 24, 2012
 Camera ready versions due May 1, 2012

Past POCV Workshops

 2010 CVPR (San Francisco, CA) 
 2008 CVPR (Anchorage, AK) 
 2006 CVPR (New York, NY) 
 2004 CVPR (Washington, DC) 
 2001 ICCV (Vancouver, Canada) 
 1999 ICCV (Crete, Greece)
 1998 CVPR (Santa Barbara, CA)















