https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/press/view_press?id=75



press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences










Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News / Press releases


Press release



September 24,  2008UCI receives $5.4 million to study large-scale computer networksPadhraic Smyth to lead research seeking to model and analyze larger, more complex sets of data
  
Padhraic Smyth


 
Michael
                      Goodrich  

 
David
                      Eppstein  If your Facebook page – or “node” – disappeared, would your whole social network come crashing to a halt?A five-year, $5.4 million award to UC Irvine researchers will help them find out. The grant from the U.S. Office of Naval Research will allow a research team to analyze networks of data on a significantly larger scale than ever before. The goal is to help scientists understand how networks the size of Facebook and LinkedIn are formed and how they evolve over time. The millions of Web pages connected through hyperlinks also will be studied.Related research traditionally has focused on networks of just a few hundred connected individuals, or nodes. In this new project, UCI researchers will develop mathematical models for studying networks with millions of nodes.Modeling techniques developed through this research could be used to identify critical network nodes and predict likely areas of new network growth. Project research also could spur the development of software that automatically creates new links among people in large organizations or on the Web to foster collaboration.Padhraic Smyth, computer science professor and director of UCI’s Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems, is leading the study. Funding was awarded through the U.S. Department of Defense’s Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative. The program supports basic research involving more than one science and engineering discipline and seeks to apply discoveries to both commercial and military uses.“These new network data sets are rich and complex,” Smyth said. “The structures of digital social networks are changing constantly over time. Our goal in this research project is to develop novel computational techniques to help us better understand and predict the characteristics of these large networks.”The multidisciplinary research effort, which spans the spectrum from theoretical computer science to the social sciences, will involve faculty members with expertise ranging from algorithms to graph visualization, machine learning, data mining, statistics, sociology and behavioral science. Smyth, along with co-investigators Michael Goodrich and David Eppstein from UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences, will collaborate with sociology professor Carter Butts and with researchers at the University of Washington, Pennsylvania State University and University of Maryland. The research team also includes a total of 12 graduate students and postdoctoral fellows from all four universities.Center researchers study computer algorithms that can harness the vast amounts of digital data available in the 21st century. Then they apply them intelligently to solve real-world problems, such as the development of personalized software that can interpret and prioritize e-mails without human intervention.The center’s research spans topics including Web search engines, statistical text mining, image and video data analysis, ocean and atmospheric sciences, analysis of biological and genomic data, sensor networks and medical diagnosis.





More news and events

News Stories
Press releases
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu.








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤












