https://www.stat.uci.edu/research




Research 






































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Research
 










There are currently 13 full-time faculty and two professors emeriti in the Department of Statistics. The goal of our Ph.D. program is to train statistical researchers to be leaders in the development of statistical methodology and statistical theory, and to be active participants in interdisciplinary collaborations.
Below is a partial list of research areas in which our faculty participate.

Astrostatistics
Bayesian Statistics
Biostatistics
Genomics
Statistical Computing
Statistics Education
Time Series

VERONICA BERROCAL, Associate Professor (Ph.D., University of Washington) – Research interests: Environmental sciences, atmospheric and geophysical sciences; climate change; environmental health; environmental and social epidemiology; and health inequities.
MINE DOGUCU, Assistant Professor of Teaching (Ph.D., The Ohio State University) – Research interests: Bayesian education, instructor training, and curriculum design.
DANIEL GILLEN, Professor and Chair (Ph.D, University of Washington) – Research interests: Biostatistics, survival analysis methodology for modeling censored time to event data, group sequential testing, and the design and analysis of clinical trials. Primary area of interdisciplinary work is in clinical research with an emphasis in renal disease and cancer.
WESLEY JOHNSON, Professor Emeritus (Ph.D., University of Minnesota) – Research interests: Bayesian parametric, nonparametric and semiparametric methods and inference for survival analysis, longitudinal and spatial data and for diagnostic outcome data and protocols. Asymptotics for Bayesian inference. Development of informative and partially informative prior distributions. Primary area of interdisciplinary work is veterinary and human epidemiology.
VLADIMIR MININ, Professor (Ph.D., UCLA) – Research interests: Biological sciences; infectious disease epidemiology, working on Bayesian estimation of disease transmission model parameters; computational immunology, working on statistical methods to analyze high throughput sequence data of B-cell receptors; and phylogenetics, population genetics and systems biology.
BIN NAN, Chancellor’s Professor (Ph.D., University of Washington) – Research interests: Various areas of statistics and biostatistics, including semiparametric inference, failure time and survival analysis, longitudinal data, missing data and two-phase sampling designs, and high-dimensional data analysis.
TIANCHEN QIAN, Assistant Professor (Ph.D., Johns Hopkins University) – Research interests: Causal inference, clinical trials, longitudinal data, machine learning, and mobile health.
ANNIE QU, Chancellor’s Professor (Ph.D., Pennsylvania State University) Research interests: machine learning, medical imaging, recommender systems, natural language processing, network data, personalized medicine, longitudinal/correlated data analysis, missing data, high-dimensional data, model selection, nonparametric models, and biostatistics.
BABAK SHAHBABA, Chancellor’s Professor (Ph.D., University of Toronto) – Research interests: Bayesian inference, Bayesian nonparametric modeling, biostatistics, computational methods, Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithms, applied statistics.
WEINING SHEN, Associate Professor (Ph.D., North Carolina State University) – Research interests: Bayesian nonparametric/semi-parametric models, asymptotics, high-dimensional inference and variable selection, biomarker evaluation, risk prediction of cancer, Bayesian clinical trial designs, longitudinal data analysis.
HAL STERN, Chancellor’s Professor, Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor (Ph.D., Stanford) – Research interests: Statistical inference using Bayesian methods and model diagnostics. Primary area of interdisciplinary work is applications in the biological and social sciences.
JESSICA UTTS, Professor Emeritus (Ph.D., Pennsylvania State University) – Research interests: Statistics education; Interdisciplinary statistical applications, most notably in the use of statistics in parapsychology.
YAMING YU, Associate Professor (Ph.D, Harvard University) – Research interests: Statistical computing, Bayesian analysis, applied probability, applications of statistics to astronomy.
ZHAOXIA YU, Associate Professor (Ph.D, Rice University) – Research interests: Genome-wide association analysis, haplotype-based analysis, gene-gene and gene-environment interactions, gene regulatory network, genetic pathway.













Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy


















