https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1263



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



December 13,  2017


Levorato and DeepEdge Tackle DARPA SDR Hackfest





Assistant Professor of Computer Science Marco Levorato participated in the five-day DARPA Software-Defined Radio Hackfest that took place Nov. 13-17, 2017, at the NASA Research Park in Moffett Field, Calif. DARPA initiated the SDR Hackfest this year to “explore software radio technology in new and interesting ways that are likely to become consequential in both civilian and national security contexts.”
Levorato and two of his computer science Ph.D. students, Davide Callegaro and Sabur Baidya, partnered with USC Professor Bhaskar Krishnamachari and two of his students, Kwame Wright and Pradipta Ghosh, on team DeepEdge. “Bhaskar and I have very similar research interests — Internet of Things, wireless networks and communications, machine learning, and so on,” explains Levorato, “and this was an exciting opportunity to use a lot of our prior experience combined to create a complex and articulated system.”
Team DeepEdge at the DARPA SDR Hackfest (from left): Sabur Baidya, Kwame Wright, Davide Callegaro, Marco Levorato, Bhaskar Krishnamachari, and Pradipta Ghosh. The Khan poster was their drone’s target.
Their mission was to use an SDR-equipped drone to “extend range from the base station to multiple drones while avoiding interference; enable dynamic handoff between ground and air and vice versa; and integrate sensors to provide real-time data during flight.” The team focused on detecting and attacking a visual target using video input, dynamically avoiding interference during the flight.
According to Levorato, one of the main challenges they had to address was stabilizing the drone in the indoor environment due to GPS errors. They spent several hours selecting the most reliable flight mode and calibrating the autonomous control module. He also said that “the connection of several heterogeneous tools, including OpenCV, GNU radio and Mavlink, was not trivial and required effort.”
During the Hackathon, the DeepEdge team developed and demonstrated a robust distributed processing framework for unmanned autonomous systems.
Yet the key innovation they were able to demonstrate was their distributed form of data processing and control. This distribution mitigates issues related to individual drones’ energy consumption and limited processing capabilities, while being robust to the imperfect communications that can arise from jamming or network congestion. Levorato explains that in their Hackfest setup, “the drone offloads computing to the ground station, or edge processor, if the channel is strong, but the idea can be extended to offloading between drones — for instance, to split processing and physical exploration tasks in UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle) swarms.”
Team DeepEdge next plans to refine the code they produced, conduct outdoor experiments and eventually release the code as open source. Levorato elaborates: “Our long-term plans include developing robust frequency and time-hopping strategies for the upstream of control packets from the ground station and developing distributed processing techniques to make UAV swarms capable of collaboratively processing complex data and navigating autonomously.” They also hope to develop a software-defined network framework to route data and control information through city-scale network and processing resources.
— Shani Murray

Levorato and DeepEdge Tackle DARPA SDR Hackfest



< Previous
 Top Games and Hot Topics of 2017 at UCI’s Esports Arena



            
Next >
 Faculty Spotlight: Ray Klefstad Embraces New Role as Associate Professor of Teaching
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











