http://www.ics.uci.edu/%7Emagda/Games.html




Online Games


Games
          - Health and Cloud Gaming


Exergaming: Minbike











 Only
            25% of American youth meet the current physical activity
            (PA) recommendations.
            There is a real need to develop new approaches to promote PA which
            is fun and
            engaging for this population. The objective for our work is to
            evaluate a new
            exergaming platform as a tool to
            promote physical activity in children. The
            iXercise platform that we developed, consists of an exercise
            bicycle, fitted with
            sensors and microcontrollers, and an exergame (MineBike)
            that requires a user
            to peddle to navigate through the environment. 
            MineBike includes a series of quests with different
            exercise levels and
            corresponding rewards that can be used for mining/building
            activities. In an initial
            study, we assessed participants’ 1) physiological responses
            (heart rate and oxygen
            uptake), 2) exercise intensity/work rate in different stages
            of the game
            (watts), 3) time at target HR and 3) behavioral responses
            (enjoyment,
            motivation and engagement questionnaires). HR and work rate were successfully
            consistently monitored during a 40-min MineBike exergaming
            session. What we notices is that MineBike successfully
            induced moderate- to
            vigorous- intensity exercise and participants could achieve
            > 20 min at the
            target heart rate (>120 bpm). Our perception is that
            participants universally enjoyed MineBike and
            were engaged in the game experience. From these preliminary
            results we can conclude that the iXercise platform might
            prove to be a promising new approach to promote physical
            activity in healthy children and as a therapy in children
            with a wide variery of clinical conditions. In the next
            phase, we are incorporating a more cohesive game story,
            multiplayer capability, several quests with different levels
            of difficulty, and a more incentive based reward system that
            in conjunction with an Intelligent Agent embedded in the
            system will induce adgherence to aprescribed  exercise
            program during a MineBike session. 












Cloud Gaming: A flexible adaptive infrastructure for single
            player online gaming

Applying cloud technology to 3D interactive multimedia
          applications is a promising way to provide flexible and cost
          efficient online high bandwidth immersive services to a large
          population of end users. One main reason cloud systems are
          popular among users is the fact that it relaxes the hardware
          requirements for high-end interactive visual applications. As
          most of the computational tasks are done on cloud servers,
          users no longer need to upgrade their hardware as frequently
          to keep up with the ever increasing high end computing
          requirements of the latest applications. Moreover, cloud
          systems make it easier for a user to enjoy applications on
          different platforms, including mobile devices that are usually
          not powerful enough to run high-end, memory intensive
          services. In short, applying cloud technology to high end
          immersive applications has advantages in cost efficiency and
          flexibility both for the end users and the service providers.
          However, there are two main drawbacks to applying cloud
          technology to 3D interactive multimedia services: 1) high
          bandwidth utilization and 2) latency. In our work we propose a
          flexible framework that addresses the two problems by using a
          combination of collaborative rendering, progressive meshes,
          and 3D image warping techniques. The experimental results
          obtained so far show that the proposed system can reduce the
          bandwidth usage and improve the visual quality by utilizing
          local computing power on the client. The results also show
          that it is possible to reduce the interactive latency by
          sacrificing the visual quality in our system.
















