http://www.ics.uci.edu/%7Emagda/Ghana.html




Ghana






Ghana: History and Culture






Elmina Fort Virtual Tour - Cultural Heritage and the
          Preservation of African History












Until
          five years ago, tours of Southern plantations only led
          visitors through the
          rooms inhabited by the slave owners. When on such a tour ten
          years ago, I was
          shushed and glared at by the tour leader. In recent years,
          however, things have
          begun to turn around. Tours of former plantations in the
          American South have
          begun to add information about the lives of the slaves who
          made the lives of
          ease and luxury possible. In some cases, the tours given by
          the Historic
          Charleston Foundation spend as much time in the slave quarters
          as in the big
          houses.

Nearly
          all the current 3D Digital Humanities historical preservation
          projects are
          built around widely known and highly celebrated places. For
          example, there
          exist finished or partial completed 3D digital models of
          Renaissance palaces,
          the Roman Coliseum, the Biblical city of Tal Afar, and the
          ancient city of
          Palmyra. Given the time, money and personnel necessary to
          complete such
          projects, these 3D model builders opted for recreating
          cultural heritage sites
          with pleasing and appealing histories. Their calculations seem
          to have been
          correct, since those projects have easily found large funding
          from national
          organizations. However, these digital historians reconstructed
          cultural
          heritage buildings in order to regale their audiences with
          tales of the wealthy
          and powerful who like the southern plantation owners enjoyed
          the fruits of
          slave labor.
Professors
          El Zarki and Seed at the University of California-Irvine saw
          the politics of
          digital cultural preservation differently. We believed that
          with the exception
          of the pyramids, African buildings and African subjects were
          absent in the
          world of heritage initiatives. Since the European world had
          profited tremendously
          from its overseas colonies, we believed that it was important
          to recreate a
          building that would serve as a reminder of the colonial rule.
          That building should
          both represent colonial rule as well as serving as a reminder
          of how much of
          European and American economic success depended upon the slave
          trade. The slave
          forts were the places where Europeans and Africans crossed
          paths daily. But it
          was also the place where African slaves were imprisoned prior
          to their removal
          from Africa.
Over
          the last four years, we built a complete 3D model of the
          oldest slave fort in
          Africa, a place originally completed in 1482, and which exists
          to this day.
          Saint George Elmina (originally São Jorge da Mina) is also one
          of the largest
          forts in West Africa. Our model, complete with interactive era
          tours (tour
          the fort as it is now or how it was under Dutch occupation),
          and augmented
          virtuality, is available for inspection on a fast internet
          connection, or for
          download under a CreativeCommons license.

Sanfoka Game - A Cultural Heritage
            Edugame















There are many
        ways to learn about another culture,
        but the most in-depth method of learning includes the
        opportunity to visit a
        country and live among its people for an extended period of
        time. Such
        opportunities remain out of reach for most people and are not
        practical when
        addressing pedagogy in school aged children. 
        For most, learning usually entails going to classrooms
        and attending
        lectures, visiting museums, seeing and reading about people and
        objects online.
        A brilliant teacher or speaker can communicate enthusiasm and
        interest in a
        subject, but that learning is restricted to those fortunate
        enough to be
        present during the lecture. Seeing a folktale staged in a
        theater, or watching
        it in a movie or even listening to it in a library or classroom
        allows for
        momentary enjoyment and delight, but the experience is often
        fleeting and
        quickly dissipates, especially with younger audiences. Seeing
        performances,
        going to museums, listening to folktales are all valuable
        experiences, each of
        these has their advantages. but all ultimately fail to draw a
        young mind into a
        broader understanding of the cultural logics of a society.



Recent advances in the pedagogy of
        cultural learning
        and communication have created new and unprecedented ways of
        getting the attention
        of students. One of the most exciting and effective means is to
        involve
        students in the process of learning through dynamic engagement
        using video
        games. Immersing oneself in a 3D virtual environment, or
        engaging with a space
        via augmented reality has a much more profound effect on the
        learning
        experience. 















Using
          serious games for cultural heritage education allows students
          to follow a
          character, solve puzzles and defeat challenges in ways that
          are both familiar
          and unfamiliar at the same time. 
          The
          ways of moving a character/interacting with a character in
          virtual space, are
          all intimately familiar to younger generations. Although the
          mechanics of game
          play remain familiar, the cultural logics needed to solve the
          puzzles in
          cultural heritage games are deeply embedded in ways of
          thinking that would be
          found in the communities that are being presented. In effect,
          computer games
          can provide access to cultural logics in ways that other
          methods cannot. 

















