https://www.ics.uci.edu/~klefstad
 
 Raymond Klefstad, Ph.D. 




 Raymond Klefstad, Ph.D.



 Department of Computer Science, Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Science, U.C. Irvine 

 Research Areas: Teaching, Compilers, Operating Systems, Distributed Computing, Real-time Computing,
             Embedded Systems, Middleware, Object-Oriented (OO) Design,
             Design Patterns, OO Programming Languages
         Electronic Mail: Klefstad(a)uci.edu
         Office: Donald Bren Hall 3??
         Office Hours: Link
 Short Biography Shortest Biography
 Curriculum Vitae (Resume)
 If you want a letter of recommendation
		from me...


        Computers and communications technologies have changed
        the world.  From command-and-control systems to
        control of our automobiles, these technologies play a vital role. This
        revolution is only a few decades old, but already
        futurists talk about the twenty-first century in terms
        of the ``information economy,'' the ``information
        society,'' and even the ``information age.'' UCI's
    Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Science is in the center of this revolution,
    with programs of instruction and research in a variety
    of areas within computer science technology.

    


||
Educational Philosophy  ||



 Educational Philosophy 

 I assume my students want to learn.  True learning requires hard work.
 I motivate my students to learn with lots of course work including weekly
 homeworks, weekly quizzes, and a comprehensive final exam.  My role is
 to define what I want students to learn then to help them understand
 and learn that material.  I try to balance theory and practice so
 students can see the value of what they are learning.  I
 convey enthusiasm for the material in lecture and I'm sure my
 students can sense that I love my job and that I really care about
 their futures.  I've been very honored to receive fifteen UCI teaching
 awards over the past thirty years of UC teaching.

 Educational Wisdom 


Advice to UCI ICS Students




        Department of Computer Science,
        University of California, Irvine CA 92697-2625
    
 
