http://www.ics.uci.edu/~aces/projects.htm



projects



















Projects





 


SoC Communication 
    Architecture Design Space Modeling, Exploration and Synthesis (COMMEX)


Key Researcher:  
Sudeep 
    Pasricha
Modern Systems-on-Chip are 
    increasingly becoming more and more complex. Communication between on-chip 
    components frequently becomes a bottleneck due to the numerous 
    inter-component data dependencies inherent in these complex systems. 
    Designers need to explore communication architectures to meet system 
    performance requirements and satisfy the ever shrinking time-to-market 
    constraints. Our main focus is on developing a methodology for modeling SoC 
    designs for early 
    exploration, power/performance tradeoff analysis and synthesis of the communication architectures in modern SoC 
    designs.
    
 





References:





    S. Pasricha, N. Dutt, "COSMECA: Application Specific Co-Synthesis of Memory 
    and Communication Architectures for MPSoC", To appear at Design 
    Automation and Test in Europe Conference (DATE 2006), Munich, Germany, 
    March 2006

    S. Pasricha, N. Dutt, M. Ben-Romdhane, "Constraint-Driven Bus Matrix 
    Synthesis for MPSoC", To appear at ASPDAC 2006, Yokohama, Japan, 
    January 2006 (Best Paper Award)

    S. Pasricha, N. Dutt, E. Bozorgzadeh, M. Ben-Romdhane, "Floorplan-aware 
    Automated Synthesis of Bus-based Communication Architectures", Design and Automation Conference (DAC 2005), Anaheim, CA, June 2005 
    (Best Paper Award Candidate)  

    download pdf
S. Pasricha, N. Dutt, M. Ben-Romdhane, 
    "Automated Throughput-driven Synthesis of Bus-based Communication 
    Architectures", ASPDAC 2005, Shanghai, China, January 2005
S. Pasricha, N. Dutt, M. Ben-Romdhane, "Fast Exploration of Bus-based 
    On-chip Communication Architectures", CODES+ISSS 2004, Stockholm, Sweden, 
    September 2004 

    download pdf  
S. Pasricha, N. Dutt, M. Ben-Romdhane, "Extending the Transaction Level 
    Modeling Approach for Fast Communication Architecture Exploration", 
    Design and Automation Conference (DAC 2004), San Diego, CA, June 2004

download pdf

Memory Subsystem Optimizations and 
    Customizations for Embedded Applications

Key Researcher:  

Ilya Issenin




The memory subsystem consumes a large percentage of overall energy in many 
    modern embedded systems. In our research we are investigating different 
    configurations of non-traditional memory hierarchies that use components 
    such as multiple custom scratch pad based memories, and tradeoffs between 
    local and global memory organizations in the context of complex 
    multiprocessor SOCs,  with the overall goals of reducing energy consumption 
    and improving performance of  embedded applications.

References:
    A. Shrivastava, I. Issenin, N. Dutt, "Compilation techniques for energy 
    reduction in horizontally partitioned cache architectures", CASES 2005, 
    San Francisco, California, USA, 2005
I. Issenin, N. Dutt, "FORAY-GEN: Automatic Generation of Affine 
    Functions for Memory Optimizations", DATE 2005, Munich, Germany, March, 
    2005
I. Issenin, E. Brockmeyer, M. Miranda, N. Dutt, "Data Reuse 
    Analysis Technique for Software-Controlled Memory Hierarchies", DATE 2004, 
    Paris, France, February, 2004


download 
    pdf

Power Estimation of Low-Power High-Performance 
    Memory Structures (IDAP/eCACTI)


Key Researcher: Mahesh Mamdipaka

This project investigates power modeling of custom memory structures at 
    different levels of abstraction. With increasing memory content in systems, 
    their percentage contribution to total power dissipation is predicted to 
    further increase in future technologies. We have developed a generic 
    methodology and models for estimation of power dissipation in array 
    structures at different levels of the design hierarchy. At the transistor 
    level, we developed a generic methodology to generate characterization based 
    analytical power models for array structures. At the Register Transfer level 
    (RT level), we developed an estimation tool named Implementation Dependent 
    Array Power estimator (IDAP) that estimates power dissipation based on a 
    high-level design description of the memory arrays. IDAP estimates both 
    leakage and dynamic power dissipation in array structures. Finally, at the 
    micro-architecture level, we developed eCACTI (enhanced CACTI), a tool that 
    (a) estimates the power dissipation in caches, and (b) determines the 
    optimal cache configuration that best meets the optimization criterion.

    Reference: 


M. Mamidipaka, K. Khouri, N. Dutt, M. Abadir, "IDAP: A Tool for High 
    Level Power Estimation of Custom Array Structures ", IEEE Transactions on 
    CAD (TCAD), September 2004.


download pdf

    M. Mamidipaka, K.  Khouri, N. Dutt, M. Abadir, "Analytical Models for 
    Leakage Power Estimation of Memory Array Structures", Proc. of CODES+ISSS, 
    Stockholm, Sweden, September 2004.


download pdf

Generation of 
    High-Quality Instruction Set Extensions (ISEGEN)



Key Researcher:  
Partha Biswas
Customization of processor architectures through Instruction Set Extensions 
    (ISEs) is an effective way to meet the growing performance demands of 
    embedded applications. A high-quality ISE generation approach needs to 
    obtain results close to those obtained by experienced designers, 
    particularly for complex applications that exhibit regularity: expert 
    designers are able to exploit manually such regularity in the data flow 
    graphs to generate high-quality ISEs. Our ISEGEN approach identifies 
    high-quality ISEs by iterative improvement following the basic principles of 
    the well-known Kernighan-Lin (K-L) min-cut heuristic. Experimental results 
    on a number of MediaBench, EEMBC and cryptographic applications show that 
    our approach matches the quality of the optimal solution obtained by 
    exhaustive search. We also show that our ISEGEN technique is on average 20X 
    faster than a genetic formulation that generates equivalent solutions. 
    Furthermore, the ISEs generated by our technique exhibit 35% more speedup 
    than the genetic solution on a large cryptographic application (AES) by 
    effectively exploiting its regular structure.
References:
    P. Biswas, S. Banerjee, N. Dutt, L. Pozzi, and P. Ienne, "ISEGEN: 
    Generation of High-Quality Instruction Set Extensions by Iterative 
    Improvement", DATE 2005, Munich, Germany, March, 2005

P. Biswas, S. Banerjee, N. Dutt, L. Pozzi 
    and P. Ienne,
    "Fast Automated Generation of High-Quality Instruction
    Set Extensions for Processor Customization", Workshop on Application 
    Specific Processors (WASP),  

September 2004.

    P. Biswas, V. Choudhary, K. Atasu, L. Pozzi, P. Ienne and N. Dutt, 
    "Introduction of Local Memory Elements in Instruction Set Extensions", 
    Design Automation Conference (DAC),  

June 2004    

Power Aware 
    Error Resilient Coding


Key Researchers: Minyoung Kim, Hyunok Oh

With advance in technology and the trend towards "convergent mobile 
    computing", there will be growing demand for high quality mobile multimedia 
    communication. This problem should be solved with reasonable compression 
    efficiency, coupled with high error resiliency, which is a crucial factor 
    for the real-time multimedia communication over lossy networks. 
    Specifically, in the mobile handheld environment, this problem is also 
    linked with the consideration of the innate limitation of the handheld 
    devices, such as the short battery lifetime and the low CPU computation 
    capability. Therefore, in this project, we introduce a new power aware error 
    resilient encoding scheme that can run at various operating points in 
    accordance with resource constraints. This research is a part of FORGE 
    project: a Framework for Optimization of Distributed Embedded Systems 
    Software.

References:
    M. Kim, H. Oh, N. Dutt, A. Nicolau and N. Venkatasubramanian, "Probability 
    Based Power Aware Error Resilient Coding", First International Workshop 
    on Services and Infrastructures for the Ubiquitous and Mobile Internet 
    (SIUMI'05) in conjunction with the 25th International Conference on 
    Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS'05), Columbus, Ohio, USA, Jun. 2005
      
S. Mohapatra, R. Cornea, H. Oh, K. Lee, M. Kim, N. Dutt, R. 
    Gupta, A. Nicolau, S. Shukla, N. Venkatasubramanian, "A Cross-Layer Approach 
    for Power-Performance Optimization in Distributed Mobile Systems", 
    Workshop on NSF Next Generation Software Program, in conjunction with 
    International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS'05), 
    Denver, Colorado, USA, Apr. 2005
Radu Cornea, Nikil Dutt, Rajesh Gupta, Ingolf Krueger, Alex Nicolau, Doug 
    Schmidt, Sandeep Shukla, “FORGE: A Framework for Optimization of Distributed 
    Embedded Systems Software”, International Parallel and Distributed 
    Processing Symposium, April 2003    

Architecture Aware 
    Compilation for Embedded Systems


Key Researcher:  
Aviral Shrivastata
Modern 
    embedded processors are incorporating several dynamic schemes (e.g. dynamic 
    scheduling, caches, predication) to meet the ever tightening, 
    multi-dimensional demands of embedded applications. However the complex and 
    dynamic nature of these architectural and micro-architectural techniques 
    renders them intractable for exploitation by conventional compiler 
    technology. Our research attempts to model and exploit these dynamic 
    mechanisms within such processors during the process of code generation. We 
    investigate compilation strategies for  performance, power and code size, 
    while allowing for exploration and evaluation of different 
    micro-architectural features.
References:
    A. Shrivastava, A. Nicolau, N. Dutt, E. Earlie, "PBExplore: A 
    Framework for Compiler-in-the-Loop Exploration of Partial Bypassing in 
    Embedded Processors", DATE 2005, Munich, Germany, March 2005
A. Shrivastava, E. Earlie, N. Dutt, A. Nicolau "Operation Tables for Scheduling in the 
    Presence of Incomplete
    Bypassing",  CODES+ISSS' September 2004

    download pdf

    A. Shrivastava, N. Dutt "Energy Efficient Code Generation using rISA", 
    ASPDAC' January 2004


download pdf

Task-level Partitioning and Scheduling for Reconfigurable 
    Systems

Key Researcher:  

Sudarshan Banerjee



Hardware-Software (HW-SW) partitioning is a 
    critical step in codesign of embedded systems- key system parameters such as 
    execution time, power consumption etc., are primarily influenced by 
    partitioning decisions. SRAM-based FPGAs are becoming popular for HW 
    implementation and design sizes are increasing very rapidly. In this 
    context, there is a need to investigate efficient and scalable partitioning 
    and scheduling algorithms that do a very rapid and high-quality exploration 
    of the design space. One key feature of modern FPGAs is dynamic 
    reconfiguration where the hardware configuration can be changed dynamically 
    to obtain better performance at lower hardware cost. While this is a very 
    powerful feature,  it introduces a lot of architectural constraints on 
    the system. We are developing a number of partitioning and scheduling 
    algorithms to generate high-quality results in the context of multiprocessor 
    SOCs.

References:
    S. Banerjee, E. Bozorgzadeh, N. Dutt, "Physically-aware HW-SW 
    Partitioning for reconfigurable architectures with partial dynamic 
    reconfiguration", DAC 2005, Anaheim, CA, June 2005

    S. Banerjee, N. Dutt, "Efficient Search Space Exploration for HW-SW 
    Partitioning", CODES+ISSS, Stockholm, September 2004.

Distributed 
    Real-time Embedded Analysis Method


Key Researcher: Gabor Madl 
Web Site: 

    http://dre.sourceforge.net

Real-time middleware provides dependable and efficient 
    platforms supporting key functional and quality of service (QoS) needs of 
    distributed real-time embedded (DRE) systems. Key challenges in DRE system 
    developments include safe composition of system components and mapping the 
    functional specifications onto the target platform. Model-based technologies 
    help address these issues by enabling design-time analysis and providing the 
    means for the rapid evaluation of design alternatives with respect to 
    end-to-end QoS properties, predictability and performance measures before 
    committing to a specific platform. The Distributed Real-time Embedded 
    Analysis Method DREAM ™ is an open-source tool and method for optimizing 
    multiple quality of service (QoS) properties of distributed real-time 
    embedded (DRE) systems. The project focuses on the practical application of 
    formal analysis methods to real-time middleware to automate the 
    verification, development, configuration, and integration of 
    middleware-based DRE systems.

Reference:
    G. Madl, S. Abdelwahed, and D. C. Schmidt, "Verifying Distributed Real-time 
    Properties of Embedded Systems via Graph Transformations and Model 
    Checking," International Journal of Time-Critical Computing Systems, invited 
    paper, to appear, 2005.


download pdf











Home | 
Projects | 
Publications | 
News & Events | 
People | 
Sponsors | 
Downloads | 
Links | 
Join ACES | 
About Us











Please e-mail your comments and suggestions to Sudeep Pasricha 
  (sudeep@ics.uci.edu)  
  © Copyright 1997-2004 ACES-UCI. All rights reserved 




