http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/courses/listing.php?year=2016&level=Graduate&department=STATS&program=ALL


undergraduate course listing @ the bren school of information and computer sciences




This site will look much better in a browser that supports web standards, but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device.









ABOUT

About the School
Dean's Welcome
Facts and Figures
Donald Bren Hall
Visit the Bren School
Equity & Diversity
Contact Us



 DEPARTMENTS 

Computer Science
Informatics
Statistics



 RESEARCH 

Research Areas
Research Centers
Research Highlights



STUDENTS

Graduate ▸ 

Prospective Students
How to Apply
Programs of Study
Academic Year Plan
Forms
Policies
Funding & Housing
Computing Support
Campus Resources
Visit the Bren School
Graduate Student Handbook
Contact


Undergraduate ▸ 

Contact
Academic Advising
Course Updates
Academic Year Plan
Petitions
ICS Majors
ICS Minors
Policies: Academic Integrity
Policies: Academic Standing
Policies: Add, drop, & change options
Policies: Coursework outside UCI
Policies: Grade policy
Policies: Laptop & computer use
Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission
Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses
Graduation
ICS Student Life
Upcoming Events
Computing Support


Scholarships & Fellowships
Student Jobs & Internships



PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Graduate Students



NEWS & EVENTS

Newsroom
Events
Press Releases
Annual Reports
Student Blogs



GET INVOLVED

Make a Gift
Alumni
Leadership Council
Corporate Partners
Sponsor Projects
Product Development Competition







Bren school home / Undergraduate / Courses

















        Course Listing for 2016-17
    

Note:  This is a TENTATIVE schedule.  The course listings shown here are 
        neither guaranteed, nor considered "final". Department Chairs may provide updated 
        information regarding course offerings or faculty assignments throughout the year. 
        Be sure to check this list regularly for new or revised information.


Filters


Year:

2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
2019-20
2018-19
2017-18
2016-17
2015-16
2014-15
2013-14
2012-13
2011-12
2010-11
2009-10
2008-09



Level:

ALL
Graduate
Lower-Division
Undergraduate
Upper-Division



Department:

ALL
CS
CSE
ECE
EDUC
EECS
GDM
ICS
INF
MATH
NetSys
SE
STATS
US



Core Classes for:

ALL

Biomedical Computing
Business Information Management
Computer Game Science
Computer Science
Computer Science and Engineering
CS-Algorithms
CS-Architecture and Embedded Systems
CS-Bioinformatics
CS-Information
CS-Intelligent Systems
CS-Networked Systems
CS-Systems and Software
CS-Visual Computing
Informatics
Information and Computer Science


Computer Science
Informatics
Networked Systems
Statistics














Course
Title
description
Fall 2016
Winter 2017 
Spring 2017 
Summer 2017 
















                STATS 200A            



STATS 200A


                   Basics of probability theory, random variables and basic transformations, univariate distributions - discrete and continuous, multivariate distributions.  Prerequisites: Statistics 120A-B-C or equivalent or consent of instructor.            
Yaming Yu  
 
 
 



                STATS 200B            



STATS 200B


                   Random samples, transformations, limit laws, normal distribution theory, introduction to stochastic processes, data reduction, point estimation (maximum likelihood).  Prerequisites: Statistics 120A-B-C or equivalent or consent of instructor.            
 
Babak Shahbaba  
 
 



                STATS 200C            



STATS 200C


                   Interval estimation, hypothesis testing, decision theory and Bayesian inference, basic linear model theory.  Prerequisites: Statistics 120A-B-C or equivalent or consent of instructor.            
 
 
Zhaoxia Yu  
 



                STATS 201            



STATS 201


                   Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing data from experiments and surveys. Methods covered include two-sample procedures, analysis of variance, simple and multiple linear regression. May not be taken for graduate credit by Statistics graduate students. Prerequisite: knowledge of basic statistics (at level of Statistics 7). Concurrent with Statistics 110.            
Sevan Gregory Gulesserian Tsung-Hua Lin  
 
 
 



                STATS 202            



STATS 202


                   Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing data from surveys or experiments. Emphasizes application and understanding of methods for categorical data including contingency tables, logistic and Poisson regression, loglinear models. May not be taken for graduate credit by Statistics graduate students. Prerequisite: Statistics 201 or equivalent. Concurrent with Statistics 111.            
 
Sevan Gregory Gulesserian Hernando  Ombao  
 
 



                STATS 203            



STATS 203


                   Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing longitudinal data from experiments and cohort studies. Topics covered include survival methods for censored time-to-event data, linear mixed models, non-linear mixed effects models, and generalized estimating equations. May not be taken for graduate credit by Statistics graduate students. Prerequisite: Statistics 202 or equivalent. Concurrent with Statistics 112.            
 
 
 TBD  
 



                STATS 205            



STATS 205


                   Basic Bayesian concepts and methods with emphasis on data analysis. Special emphasis on specification of prior distributions. Development for one-two samples and on to binary, Poisson, and linear regression. Analyses performed using free OpenBugs software.            
 
Michele Guindani  
 
 



                STATS 210            



STATS 210


                   Statistical methods for analyzing data from surveys and experiments. Topics include randomization and model-based inference, two-sample methods, analysis of variance, linear regression and model diagnostics. Prerequisite: knowledge of basic statistics (at the level of Statistics 7), calculus, linear algebra.            
Hernando  Ombao  
 
 
 



                STATS 211            



STATS 211


                   Development of the theory and application of generalized linear models. Topics include likelihood estimation and asymptotic distributional theory for exponential families, quasi-likelihood and mixed model development. Emphasizes methodological development and application to real scientific problems.            
 
Daniel Gillen  
 
 



                STATS 212            



STATS 212


                   Development and application of statistical methods for analyzing corrected data. Topics covered include repeated measures ANOVA, linear mixed models, non-linear mixed effects models, and generalized estimating equations. Emphasizes both theoretical development and application of the presented methodology.            
 
 
Daniel Gillen  
 



                STATS 220A            



STATS 220A


                   Advanced topics in probability and statistical inference including measure theoretic probability, large sample theory, decision theory, resampling and Monte Carlo methods, nonparametric methods. Prerequisites: Statistics 200A-B-C.            
 
Weining Shen  
 
 



                STATS 220B            



STATS 220B


                   Advanced topics in probability and statistical inference including measure theoretic probability, large sample theory, decision theory, resampling and Monte Carlo methods, nonparametric methods. Prerequisites: Statistics 200A-B-C.            
 
 
Weining Shen  
 



                STATS 225            



STATS 225


                   Introduction to the Bayesian approach to statistical inference. Topics include univariate and multivariate models, choice of prior distributions, hierarchical models, computation including Markov chain Monte Carlo, model checking, and model selection. Prerequisites: two quarters of upper-division or graduate training in probability and statistics, or consent of instructor.            
 
 
Yaming Yu  
 



                STATS 230            



STATS 230


                   Numerical computations and algorithms with applications in statistics. Topics include optimization methods including the EM algorithm, random number generation and simulation, Markov chain simulation tools, and numerical integration. Prerequisites: two quarters of upper-division or graduate training in probability and statistics. Statistics 230 and CS 206 may not both be taken for credit.            
 
Babak Shahbaba  
 
 



                STATS 240            



STATS 240


                   Theory and application of multivariate statistical methods. Topics include: likelihood and Bayesian inference for the multivariate normal model, visualization of multivariate data, data reduction techniques, cluster analysis, and multivariate statistical models. Prerequisites: Statistics 200A-B-C and Mathematics 121A.            
Zhaoxia Yu  
 
 
 



                STATS 245            



STATS 245


                   Statistical models for analysis of time series from time and frequency domain perspectives. Emphasizes theory and application of time series data analysis methods. Topics include ARMA/ARIMA models, model identification and estimation, linear operators, Fourier analysis, spectral estimation, state space models, Kalman filter. Prerequisites: Statistics 200A-B-C.            
 
Michele Guindani  
 
 



                STATS 250            



STATS 250


                   Statistical methods commonly used to analyze data arising from clinical studies. Topics include analysis of observational studies and randomized clinical trials, techniques in the analysis of survival and longitudinal data, approaches to handling missing data, meta-analysis, nonparametric methods. Prerequisite: Statistics 210.            
 
 
Tsung-Hua Lin  
 



                STATS 275            



STATS 275


                   Training in collaborative research and practical application of statistics. Emphasis on effective communication as it relates to identifying scientific objectives, formulating a statistical analysis plan, choice of statistical methods, and interpretation of results and their limitations to non-statisticians.             
Hernando  Ombao  
 
 
 



                STATS 280            



STATS 280


                   Periodic seminar series covering topics of current research in statistics and its application. Prerequisites: graduate standing and consent of instructor. Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.             
Hernando  Ombao  
Babak Shahbaba  
Yaming Yu  
 



                STATS 281A            



STATS 281A


                   Introduction to basic principles of probability and statistical inference. Axiomatic definition of probability, random variables, probability distributions, expectation.            
Yaming Yu  
 
 
 



                STATS 281B            



STATS 281B


                   Introduction to basic principles of probability and statistical inference. Point estimation, interval estimating, and testing hypotheses, Bayesian approaches to inference.            
 
Weining Shen  
 
 



                STATS 281C            



STATS 281C


                   Introduction to basic principles of probability and statistical inference. Contingency table analysis, linear regression, analysis of variance, model checking.            
 
 
Zhaoxia Yu  
 








Quick Links 
- select a page -
Computing support
CS Seminar Series
Employment
Facilities
Find faculty and staff
Giving to the Bren School
Graduate degrees
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Project ICS
Prospective undergraduates
Safety procedures
Undergraduate degrees

       

Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet




