https://www.ics.uci.edu/employment/employ_faculty



faculty positions @ the bren school of information and computer sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Employment


Faculty Positions

University of California, Irvine
Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
Tenure-Track/Tenured Faculty Positions
The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) at the University of California, Irvine (UCI), home of the departments of Computer Science, Informatics, and Statistics, is seeking exceptional candidates for multiple tenure/tenured-track faculty positions. See below for open positions or view the UCI Recruit website for all of our academic positions.


School of ICS


Donald Bren Professor in Information and Computer Sciences



Computer Science Department


Open-Rank Faculty Position in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Open-Rank Faculty Position in Systems
Open-Rank Faculty Position in Bioinformatics
Professor of Teaching

Informatics Department


Professor of Teaching



Statistics Department


Tenure-Track/Tenured Faculty Position




ICS is one of only five computing-focused schools among the Association of American Universities (AAU) members. The U.S. News and World Report 2018 Best Global Universities ranking identifies UCI as a top 75 university in computer science and one of the top 30 universities for a graduate degree in computer science in the United States. The School’s Informatics Department is internationally renowned for addressing problems at the intersection of people and computing, offering top 10 programs in software engineering, human-computer interaction, and game design. With an emphasis on research in statistical theory and interdisciplinary collaborations, the School’s Statistics Department has grown over the last 20 years to house the Center for Statistical Consulting and was one of the first in the world to offer an undergraduate degree in data science. The School’s 100+ faculty members include 2 NAE Members, 14 ACM Fellows, 10 IEEE Fellows, 9 AAAS Fellows and many other national award winners.

The University of California, Irvine is ranked as a top 10 public university by U.S. News and World Report, and has been identified by the New York Times as No. 1 among U.S. universities that do the most for low-income students. UCI has done what no other school has done—rank among Sierra’s Top 10 most sustainable colleges for nine years in a row, and is ranked number 1 for 2018. UCI is located in Orange County, 4 miles from the Pacific Ocean and 45 miles south of Los Angeles. Irvine is one of the safest communities in the U.S. and offers a very pleasant year-round climate, numerous recreational and cultural opportunities, and one of the highest-ranked public school systems in the nation.
The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy. A recipient of an NSF ADVANCE award for gender equity, UCI is responsive to the needs of dual career couples, supports work-life balance through an array of family-friendly policies, and is dedicated to broadening participation in higher education.



Student employmentPlease visit Handshake to browse current student opportunities. 




More employment

Endowed Bren Chairs
Faculty Positions
Lecturer Positions
Research Positions
Student/alumni job board
Staff Positions









Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











