https://www.cs.uci.edu/research-centers




Research centers 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Research centers
Organized research programs provide a mechanism and organizational structure within which collective research activities can take place that are fundamentally different from those that occur normally within the schools and departments. These centers are intended to foster the development of short- and long-term research programs that span disciplines and academic units thereby making it possible for faculty to acquire extramural resources for which they might not otherwise qualify. Below is a comprehensive list of computer science-related research centers at UC Irvine:
Calit2 – California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology
A multidisciplinary research institute in collaboration with UCSD, Calit2@UCI integrates academic research with industry experience to seek innovative IT approaches that will benefit society and ignite economic development.
Center for Algorithms and Theory of Computation
The goal of research in theoretical computer science is to produce results, supported by rigorous proof, about problems dealing with computers and their applications.
Center for Embedded Computer Systems
Conducting leading-edge interdisciplinary research in embedded systems, the center develops innovative design methodologies, and promote technology and knowledge transfer for the benefit of the individual and society.
Center for Emergency Response Technologies (CERT) 
Works to radically transform the ability of responding organizations to gather, manage, use, and disseminate information within emergency response networks and to the general public. By using more robust information systems, response can focus on activities that have the highest potential to save lives and property.
Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
Addresses the challenges of the modern data-driven world, using computer algorithms to discover useful information from vast data archives.
Center for Pervasive Communications and Computing (CPCC)
Dedicated to serving the vision of wearable computers with wireless connections that enable anyone to have continuous voice, video, and data connectivity.
Computational Vision Lab
The Computational Vision Lab focuses on understanding the information processing capabilities of biological visual systems and on developing computational systems for processing visual media.
Computer Games and Virtual Worlds
Promotes and expands campuswide research activities that draw upon UCI’s strengths spanning the social and technological aspects of games and virtual worlds. Collaborators include faculty members from computer science, arts, humanities, social science and education.
Cybersecurity Policy & Research Institute (CPRI)
CPRI is a multidisciplinary, collaborative effort among UCI’s schools of Information and Computer Sciences, Engineering, Law, Physical Sciences, Social Ecology, Social Sciences and the Division of Continuing Education. It brings a holistic, focus to difficult technology, legal and policy challenges in combatting cyber threats, while working to protect individual privacy and civil liberties.
HPI Research Center in Machine Learning and Data Science at UCI
The Hasso Plattner Institute (HPI), dedicated to pioneering research into information technology, announced on Feb. 26, 2020 the opening of its newest research school, the HPI Research Center in Machine Learning and Data Science at UCI. The goal is to promote research and educational activities in these two fields between the two leading universities.
Institute for Future Health
Empowering individuals to preserve and promote health using technology.
IGB – Institute for Genomics and BioInformatics
Fostering innovative basic and applied research in genomics and BioInformatics, IGB works with established companies, start-ups, government agencies and standards bodies to develop and transition these technologies to widespread and practical application.
ISR – Institute for Software Research
Works toward advancing software and information technology through research partnerships and educating the next generation of software researchers and practitioners in advanced software technologies.
LUCI – Laboratory for Ubiquitous Computing and Interaction
Addresses the entire range of research problems that arise from the ubiquitous computing vision: the design of novel devices, the structure of software systems, techniques for designing and building systems, patterns of interaction, and the cultural implications of ubiquitous computing.
Secure Systems and Software Laboratory
The Secure Systems and Software Laboratory at the University of California, Irvine.
SCONCE – Secure Computing and Networking Center 
SCONCE focuses on research for protecting information and computing infrastructure with an emphasis in areas like applied cryptography, network security and information assurance.


Latest news


Graduate Student Spotlight: Markelle Kelly Highlights the Human Side of Computer Science
October 15, 2022


UCI and BlackBerry Win NSF Convergence Accelerator Grant
October 12, 2022


BBC: “The Computer Errors From Outer Space” (Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi quoted)
October 12, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 





