https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1272



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



January 9,  2018


Professor Xu Awarded 2018 AITO Junior Dahl-Nygaard Prize


Associate Professor of Computer Science Harry Xu has received the AITO Junior Dahl-Nygaard Prize for 2018. Prizes will be awarded during the 2018 European Conference for Object-Oriented Programming (ECOOP) this July in Amsterdam. Xu received the award because “he has made significant contributions to different aspects of object-orientation due to a unique combination of technical strength and ambition to deliver effective object-oriented programming technologies for big data systems; the sheer amount of his practically-useful research is impressive,” according to the AITO website. 
Xu’s research ranges from software engineering, through programming languages and compilers, to runtime/operating/distributed systems and computer architecture. In particular, he is interested in developing cross-layer techniques that bridge the PL and systems communities. His recent work centers around two symmetric axes: (1) how to leverage PL techniques to solve big data problems, and, conversely, (2) how to solve PL problems with systems and architectural support.
Xu worked at Microsoft Research as a visiting researcher in 2017, where he created and led the development of a project that aims to build an optimizing compiler for multi-lingual data analytical pipelines, in particular, Microsoft’s Scope/Cosmos. He also worked at the IBM T. J. Watson Research Center as a co-op/intern from 2008 to 2011, where he led the development of a series of runtime bloat detection tools.
AITO (Association Internationale pour les Technologies Objets) is a non-profit organization dedicated to the advancement of object technology. The AITO Dahl-Nygaard Prizes are named for Ole-Johan Dahl and Kristen Nygaard, two Turning Award winners in the area of programming and simulation. In remembrance of their scholarship and enthusiastic encouragement of young researchers, in 2004 AITO established a prize to be awarded annually to a senior researcher with outstanding career contributions and a younger researcher who has demonstrated great potential for following in the footsteps of these two pioneers. It is considered as the highest honor in the area of object-oriented programming languages. Past awardees include eminent researchers such as Bjarne Stroustrup (the father of C++), the Gang of Four (the inventors of design patterns), Luca Cardelli (who developed the notion of object), and David Ungar (the inventor of SELF, which directly inspired JavaScript).

Professor Xu Awarded 2018 AITO Junior Dahl-Nygaard Prize
< Previous
 Tsudik Awarded Visiting Professorship at TU Dresden
            
Next >
 ICS Professors Presenting at AICRE Events for Martin Luther King Jr. Weekend
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











