https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-ranks-among-top-20-on-semantic-scholar-insights-list




UCI ranks among Top 20 on Semantic Scholar Insights’ List 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI ranks among Top 20 on Semantic Scholar Insights’ List
May 13, 2016 UC Irvine has been ranked 17 out of 500 influential U.S. computer science schools on the newly generated Semantic Scholar Insights’ list.
The list, developed by the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence in Seattle uses machine learning techniques to measure the influence of computer science programs’ published papers throughout the country. It also ranks paper authors and institutions.

UC Irvine racks up nearly 8,900 highly influential citations, “where the cited publication has a significant impact on the citing publication, making it easier to understand how publications build upon and relate to each other,” according to Semantic Scholar. Using the Semantic Scholar algorithm, UC Irvine’s computer science influence beats out the likes of UCLA, Harvard and CalTech.
The insights list rivals Google Scholar, PubMed and other online search engines with artificial intelligence methods, though automatically inferring influence using quantitative methods can be tricky.
Influence is a difficult thing to measure, with the traditional method being counting citations. But, as a Science article observes, not all citations are created equal. Semantic Scholar attempts “a more direct measurement of a paper’s actual influence on future research,” the article says.
“Semantic Scholar tries to reveal what’s ‘hot’ in the field by measuring the ‘velocity’ and ‘acceleration’ of bodies of work, measurements of how rapidly others are citing certain work, and whether that is trending,” it adds.
« Tsudik receives $300,000 award from Department of Homeland SecurityJain receives 2016 IEEE MultiMedia Best Department Article Award »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




