https://www.cs.uci.edu/ph-d-student-tehrani-awarded-link-foundation-fellowship




Ph.D. student Tehrani awarded Link Foundation Fellowship 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Ph.D. student Tehrani awarded Link Foundation Fellowship
June 16, 2016 Computer Science Ph.D. student Mahdi Abbaspour Tehrani has received the Advanced Simulation and Training Fellowship from The Link Foundation. He is the first at UC Irvine to receive the $26,000 annual fellowship, only awarded to a handful of students throughout the country. Tehrani’s fellow recipients hail from Stanford, University of Central Florida and the Rochester Institute of Technology.

According to The Link Foundation website, the organization “supports programs to foster the theoretical basis, practical knowledge, and application of energy, simulation, and ocean engineering and instrumentation research, and to disseminate the results of that research through lectures, seminars and publications.” It was established in 1953 by Edwin A. Link—who built the first successful flight simulator in 1929—and his wife, Marion. Over the years, The Link Foundation has awarded more than $14 million to fund scholarly pursuits consistent with their mission.
“I am very happy to receive this fellowship,” Tehrani says. “It helps me in my Ph.D. progress tremendously. With this fellowship, I won’t need to work as a teaching assistant, and as a result I can focus more on my project. It also provides funding to buy all the equipment that I need in my research.”
Tehrani’s main research interests lie in computer graphics, computer vision and human-computer interaction. He works with computer science professors Aditi Majumder and Gopi Meenakshisundaram—both former Link Foundation Fellows themselves—in UCI’s Interactive Graphics and Visualization Lab (iGravi).
« UPDATE: Franz, Dourish formally recognized as ACM FellowsFowlkes awarded $377K NSF grant for geometric imaging research »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




