https://www.cs.uci.edu/asterixdb-becomes-official-apache-software-foundation-project




AsterixDB becomes official Apache Software Foundation project 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


AsterixDB becomes official Apache Software Foundation project
July 13, 2016 AsterixDB—the multi-school effort to build a highly scalable data management system that can store, index and manage semi-structured data—has officially become an Apache project, graduating from the Apache Incubator program of the Apache Software Foundation (ASF).
Now dubbed Apache AsterixDB, the system was co-developed by faculty, researchers, staff and students primarily at UC Irvine and UC Riverside, including Bren Chair and Computer Science Professor Michael Carey and Computer Science Professor Chen Li.

According to the project’s website, since there is no open source parallel database systems (relational or otherwise) currently available to developers today, AsterixDB aims to fill this need. The project is intended to usher in a wave of Big Data Management Software (BDMS). It began as a large National Science Foundation (NSF)-sponsored project in 2009 to combine the best of the parallel database world, the Apache Hadoop world and the semi-structured data world. The team launched the first AsterixDB open source release in 2013 and it joined the Apache Incubator in 2015.
Some of the project’s key features include a flexible data model; distributed storage and transaction support; fast data ingestion; scalable, data-parallel query execution runtime; indexing for various data types; support of similarity queries; and a powerful declarative query language.
The ASF is a nonprofit organization that provides a foundation for open, collaborative software development projects by supplying hardware, communication and business infrastructure. The ASF Incubator helps new projects join the foundation, with graduation from the ASF Incubator being a highly selective and rigorous process.
« Fowlkes awarded $377K NSF grant for geometric imaging researchSwarajya: “Tomorrow’s Reform – Why The Government Needs A Tech Mindset To Change” (Jordan mentioned) »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




