https://www.cs.uci.edu/undergraduate-programs




Undergraduate Programs 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Undergraduate Programs

With more than 2,300 undergraduates, ICS provides a world-class research environment spanning not only the core areas of computer science — including computer architecture, system software, networking and distributed computing, data and information systems, the theory of computation, artificial intelligence, and computer graphics — but also highly interdisciplinary programs, such as biomedical informatics, data mining, security and privacy, and ubiquitous computing.
Our Programs
B.S. in Computer Science
The Computer Science major emphasizes the principles of computing that underlie our modern world, and provides a strong foundational education to prepare students for the broad spectrum of careers in computing. This major can serve as preparation for either graduate study or a career in industry. Students receive a solid background in low-level architecture and systems; middle-level infrastructure, algorithms, and mathematical foundations. This is a highly flexible degree that allows students to explore a broad range of topics in modern computing. In order to achieve some focus in their upper-division studies, students are required to satisfy the requirements for one of the nine specializations described below.
B.S. in Computer Science and Engineering 
The undergraduate program in Computer Science and Engineering is administered by faculty from two academic units: the Department of Computer Science in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences, and the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science  in the Henry Samueli School of Engineering. Successful completion of the program leads to a B.S. in Computer Science and Engineering.
ICS Minors
A minor is an established set of courses that allow students to pursue a focused study in an additional subject that complements your major, career goals, or is an area of personal interest. A minor in the computer science field, for instance, can help prepare students for a profession, career or academic pursuit in which computer science is an integral part but is not the primary focus. View a list of ICS minors here.



ICS Undergraduate Student Affairs Office
The ICS Undergraduate Student Affairs Office is available to assist current and prospective students in their journey as ICS students. Please visit the Undergraduate Student Affairs website for all the available resources the offer online, as well as information on academic advising and their live chat.
Hours of Operation: 
Monday to Friday
9am-12pm & 1pm-4pm
Contact Information:
ICS Undergraduate Student Affairs
ICS Building, Suite 352, Irvine, CA 92697-3430
Phone: (949) 824-5156
Fax: (949) 824-4163
E-mail: ucounsel@uci.edu
For information regarding academic advising workshops and student org meetings, check out our SAO Events Calendar.

Division of Career Pathways

We highly recommend that students meet with a Career Counselor each quarter to discuss any career-related concerns such as finding internships, full-time jobs, creating a portfolio, resume review or exploring career options. Explore their website for upcoming workshops, events, career fairs and more. Students may also sign up for an appointment with a Career Counselor using Handshake.
Career Center Information:
100 Student Services 1
(Across from Student Center Starbucks)
Irvine, CA 92697-2075
949‑824‑6881

Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education

Please contact the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education Gopi Meenakshisundaram at adsa@ics.uci.edu if you would like to discuss concerns (not related to specific academic advising), or share your thoughts and recommendations about any aspect of our ICS undergraduate program.



Latest news


Graduate Student Spotlight: Markelle Kelly Highlights the Human Side of Computer Science
October 15, 2022


UCI and BlackBerry Win NSF Convergence Accelerator Grant
October 12, 2022


BBC: “The Computer Errors From Outer Space” (Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi quoted)
October 12, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




