https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=2121



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



March 4,  2022


Hack at UCI Hosts Hybrid HackUCI 2022


Hack at UCI hosted its annual HackUCI hackathon, the largest collegiate hackathon in Orange County, in a hybrid format on Feb. 25-27. With more than 300 students in attendance from over 10 different schools, HackUCI 2022 proved to be a hit once again and generated projects ranging from artificial intelligence models to fitness applications.
Hacks were judged based on the technology used to build the project, the quality of the project and the purpose of the project. Here are the winning hacks from HackUCI 2022: 


Best Overall Hack: ukr.aiIn light of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, the team behind ukr.ai created an AI model that detects misinformation on social media networks “to help counteract the damage done by disinformation and propaganda campaigns.” Users can enter information or a link to a tweet in the ukr.ai text box. The application uses OpenAI’s GPT-3 model to determine whether or not the information is true. 
ukr.ai was created by:
Patrick Hu: junior computer science major, UCITan Huynh: junior computer engineering major, UCIStella Zhou: junior computer engineering major and accounting minor, UCIPranav Grover: junior electrical and computer engineering major, Santa Clara UniversityAlex Rabinovich: junior computational mathematics major, UC Riverside
Best Overall Hack Runner-Up: tell-a-visionTell-a-vison brings stories to life by compiling photos to create a moving storyboard. You can “tell-a-vize” your own story by recording yourself reciting a script, which will be read back to you with additional sitcom laugh tracks. The tell-a-vision team used the Web Search API to search for relevant images based on your recorded story and produce a video with those images and your audio. 
tell-a-vision was created by:
Joshua Costa: senior computer science major, UCI Quinn Forde: senior education sciences and international studies major, UCIFernando Gomez: senior informatics major, UCIJia Li Huang: senior computer science major, UCI
Google Cloud Platform Hack: ZuberCarpooling is a convenient and environmentally friendly commuting option, but sometimes it can be a nightmare to plan. However, by creating an event page on the Zuber app and adding attendees, passengers and drivers are paired up based on distance so that drivers pick up passengers who are closest to them. Zuber also automatically creates a group chat with drivers and passengers who are in the same car. 
Zuber was created by:
Ethan Nguyen: junior computer science major, UCIChris Tian: junior computer science major, UCIJane Vo: junior computer science major, UCIAlec Chen: senior computer science major and sociology minor, UCI
Google Cloud Platform Hack Runner-Up and Most Polished Game: ZotGuessrDo you know the UCI campus like the back of your hand? You can test your knowledge of the campus layout and learn fun facts about UCI with the web-based app ZotGuessr. Players select where they think a building is on the app’s Google Maps interface, and the closer they are to the building’s actual location, the more points they get.
ZotGuessr was built by:
Advay Anand: sophomore computer science major, UCIDouglas Hong: sophomore computer science major, UCIEric Huang: sophomore computer science major, UCI Davin Singh: sophomore computer science major, UCIKevin Wong: sophomore computer science major, UCI
Best Use of Mage API for AI/ML (Mage) and Best AI Hack (AI@UCI): BiascopeBiascope “empowers users to be active consumers of news” with artificial intelligence. The Biascope team utilized Mage AI’s platform to train a classification algorithm that identifies and highlights biased language in articles, which can encourage readers to think more critically about the information they’re learning and how language affects their understanding.
Biascope was created by: 
Tae Wook (Terry) Kim: sophomore computer science engineering major with minors in mathematics and business analytics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Ravi Riley: sophomore electrical engineering and computer science major, UC BerkeleyJad Soucar: sophomore mathematics major and philosophy minor, UCLA
Best UI/UX: move.ioExercising at home can be challenging when you lack motivation or the assistance of a trainer. move.io aims to make fitness at home more consistent, engaging and safe. Their website includes a variety of tools and resources, from sharing online workouts to providing real-time feedback on user performance. 
move.io was created by:
Shawn Cho: junior computer science major and mathematics minor, University of WashingtonWoo Young Kim: junior human centered design engineer major, University of WashingtonSohshun Tateishi: junior geography data science major, University of Washington
Best Product Pitch (MAISS) and Social Good Hack: WaitlessWaitless hopes to make going to the Anteater Recreation Center less stressful. Students can log into the Waitless app and join a queue to use a gym machine. When the equipment is ready to use, they’ll receive a text message informing them that it’s their turn. Once a student is at the machine, they’ll scan a QR code to confirm that they’re currently using it and then remove themselves from the queue when they’re finished. 
Waitless was created by:
Brandon Chan: freshman computer science major, UCILee Austin Uy: sophomore software engineering major, UCIEmil Zublin: sophomore computer science and engineering major, UCIAdil Quamar: junior computer science and engineering major, UCIAbhishek Jha: graduate computer science student, UCI 
Best Meme/Joke Hack:  Color “Meme”Color “Meme” makes coloring a social activity by generating random memes that users can color and then send to their friends. In the future, the Color “Meme” team hopes to offer new game modes in their virtual coloring book that allows users to interact with their friends in real-time. 
Color “Meme” was created by:
 Noah Jacinto: sophomore computer science major, California State University, Long BeachAlex Vega: sophomore computer science major, California State University, Long Beach 
Best Beginner Hack: ZotcietyIf you feel like you’ve lost all of your social skills during these past two years, why not try out Zotciety? The web-based application helps you connect with others by answering ZotPrompts (ice-breaker questions) and completing ZotTrials (challenges that encourage you to socialize in person). Points from ZotTrials are recorded on a ZotBoard. 
Zotciety was created by: 
Cheryl Chen: freshman computer science major, UCIChloe Cheng: freshman computer science major, UCIMichelle Lin: freshman computer science major, UCIMichael Pien: freshman computer science major, UCIKristen Yee: freshman business information management major, UCI
Hacker’s Choice: Steam Game CompilerSteam Game Compiler is the perfect app for those who play Steam games. It provides users quick access to information about Steam games, such as positive and negative ratings, number of active players, current news. This information helps players quickly decide whether or not they want to play and purchase a game.
Steam Game Compiler was created by:
Jake Gerber: freshman computer science major, UCI Tanush Goel: freshman computer science major, UCIJustin Liao: freshman computer science major, UCIKevin Liu: freshman computer science major, UCI
All projects from HackUCI 2022 participants can be found at the HackUCI 2022 Devpost. 
Hack at UCI will collaborate with Women in Information and Computer Science to hold VenusHacks, UCI’s largest women-centric hackathon, in the spring 2022 quarter.
— Karen Phan

Hack at UCI Hosts Hybrid HackUCI 2022
< Previous
 Ph.D. Student Ping-Xiang Chen Awarded J. Yang & Family Foundation Fellowship
            
Next >
 UCI researchers develop hybrid human-machine framework for building smarter AI
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











