http://www.ics.uci.edu/~dsm/cypress




CYPRESS











Home | People | Publications | Events | Videos and demos | For Members




    







 



CYPRESS: Dependability Techniques for Instrumented Cyber-Physical Spaces 

The CYPRESS (CYber Physical RESilliance and Sustainability) project explores techniques for dependability, resilience and 
sustainability in cyberphysical spaces. The project derives its name from the Cypress tree that represents durability and sustainability
 
Advances in sensing, embedded computing, and communication technologies offer unprecedented 
opportunities to add “intelligence” into physical systems and enable the creation of Instrumented Cyber-
Physical Spaces (ICPSs).  Example critical infrastructures include airports, energy distribution networks, 
and organizations such as schools and hospitals. Example critical applications range from surveillance to 
security and situation-aware emergency response.  For  ICPSs to transform our lives through new 
functionality, robustness, and efficiency, they must provide dependable infrastructure components in 
the presence of failures and disruptions and generate dependable information  in the face of errors in 
sensing, communications, and computations. Dynamic  adaptability  of large ICPSs that employ 
heterogeneous sensing and actuation technologies becomes the  fundamental enabler for dependable 
ICPSs. 
Dependability, as defined by the IFIP 10.4 Working  Group on Dependable Computing and Fault 
Tolerance, refers to the trustworthiness of computing systems that allows reliance to be justifiably placed 
on the services it delivers. 

Dependability constitutes a variety of non-functional requirements including 
availability, reliability, maintainability, safety, and integrity.  In the context of ICPS, dependability can 
broadly be classified at two interdependent levels that, combined, can provide a trustworthy platform for 
building applications:  
•  Infrastructure Dependability – how dependable are the underlying infrastructure components 
(e.g., sensors, networks, actuators, computing/storage elements, software environments) in the 
presence of diverse failures that may lead to disruptions, and  
•  Information Dependability – how dependable is the information generated by the underlying 
infrastructure given errors/uncertainty in sensor readings and data analysis mechanisms.  

In this project, we are expoiting an “observe-analyze-adapt” (OAA) architecture in which an ICPS has a 
model of itself, its objectives, and its effects on the environment; the ICPS achieves dependability 
objectives through adaptation using runtime application of formal analysis methods. The proposed 
dependability techniques are cross-layer in nature and range from combining multiple networking and 
messaging technologies to adaptive sensing and information fusion. 


Figure 1 illustrates our approach to designing 
ICPS management software - using OAA approach  where a self-
observing, introspecting system will initiate a logical 
adaptation of its components to meet dependability 
needs.  ICPS systems and devices (designed using a 
cross-layer architecture) supply dynamic streams of 
information that are used by application which in turn 
adapt the usage and execution of the infrastructure.  
Since ICPS systems are dynamic, observation and monitoring of a system and its evolution is critical to 
enabling dependability. At the heart of the system  is the ICPS StateDB that implements the “observe” 
aspect of the OAA cycle. A formal modeling and reasoning component allows for concrete specification 
of the ICPS system and analyzes the current system  state to reason about the dependability properties; 
providing a limited, but focused “analyze” component in the OAA cycle.  The outcome of the analysis 
will help us generate adaptations that comply with dependability constraints.  The adaptation component 
makes changes to deal with dynamics in the environment, implements human-driven changes by 
embedding human activities and human-in-the-loop decisions, and deploys the logical adaptations into the 
physical ICPS infrastructure. A key feature of our approach (see right side of Figure 2) is the ability to 
perform cross-layer analysis and adaptation, both vertically (i.e., across abstraction layers ranging  from 
the application, to middleware, OS, and hardware) and horizontally, across geographically distributed 
components interconnected via multiple, heterogeneous networks.  Thus OAA at the infrastructure level 
enables stability of the entire operational infrastructure. The proposed effort focuses on system-level 
techniques for dependable CPS operation – human interactions occur via applications that specify their 
dependability needs.   


There are four main research tasks included in our project:

1.Dependable, Cross-Layer Observation and State Management
2.Formal Methods for CPS System Dependability Analysis 
3.Adaptations to Support Infrastructure Dependability
4.Adaptations to Support Information Dependability

Research Task 1 corresponds to the observe step in OAA. In this task we will generate a cross-layer 
specification of the underlying system, its abilities and application dependability needs using quantitative 
and qualitative analysis and design an ICPS state capture service. For the analyze step, we use lightweight 
formal methods to analyze the current state of the  system, given an infrastructure and application to 
determine violations of dependability needs (Task 2). Finally, the adapt step is investigated in Research 
Tasks 3 and 4 where adaptations are designed to enhance infrastructure and information dependability.  

We aim to develop: (1) an array of specific cross-layer adaptation techniques to support infrastructure 
and information dependability in ICPSs using the OAA paradigm, (2) a formal modeling framework 
supporting executable formal models to maintain runtime system models and formal analysis techniques 
to guide the adaptation process, and (3) the incorporation of (1) and (2) into middleware services that 
provide dependability-aware ICPS state management and adaptation. Responsphere/I-sensorium, are real, NSF-funded 
ICPS infrastructure on the University of California at Irvine (UCI) campus will be used to identify 
research challenges, concretize our research, and test and validate our ideas with an emergency response 
application (situational awareness in firefighting). We will build on our experience and software 
developed in the DHS-funded project SAFIRE and prior NSF project RESCUE to use Responsphere in 
testing for emergency drills planned in collaboration with our first responder partners. 

CYPRESS 2011 Poster

















Home | People | Publications | Events | Videos and demos

  This page was last updated on
  Thursday, March 24, 2011  

    Webmaster: Zhijing DOT Qin AT gmail DOT com


 This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under
  ward Numbers 1063596, 1059436.
  Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation


