https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1876



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



October 15,  2020


A Campus Gem: UCI’s Statistical Consulting Services


If you’re a campus researcher who hasn’t yet taken advantage of UCI’s statistical consulting services, you’re missing out on a valuable resource. UCI’s Center for Statistical Consulting (CSC), which works in collaboration with the more medical- and clinical-focused Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Research Design (BERD) unit within the Institute for Clinical and Translational Sciences (ICTS), can help address any of your data analysis needs. With services such as grant proposal development, sample size calculation, data interpretation, biostatistical education and research database design, CSC/BERD is your one-stop shop for everything from study design to final presentation.

CSC/BERD offers free walk-in appointments for general questions, or consultants can provide more in-depth fee-based services through hourly rates or a subscription model. Hourly projects are assigned on a more ad hoc basis to currently available statisticians, while the subscription model dedicates a set percentage of a statistician’s (or statisticians’) time to a department or center on campus.
More and more researchers are using one of these three options, realizing they can take advantage of this campus gem during downtime caused by the COVID-19 lockdown. “There has been a significant increase in the amount of projects we’ve had,” says Dr. Joni Ricks-Oddie, director of CSC/BERD. “With many unable to get into their labs, they’ve been dusting off old manuscripts [and] finally getting to that grant they’ve been meaning to write.”
Even before the global pandemic hit, there was an increase in projects. CSC staff worked an additional 29 hours per month in 2019 compared to 2018, and the number of BERD grants jumped from 12 to 38, with 79% of those being for the School of Medicine. CSC/BERD also started new internal collaborations with UCI’s Conte Center and Down Syndrome Program, both of which use the subscription model. “The advantage of this model, which is only open to campus entities, is that you receive dedicated and consistent support from a single statistician or a set group of statisticians,” says Ricks-Oddie. “Our staff becomes long-term collaborators, garnering a more in-depth understanding of the statistical methods, research methodology and science surrounding the projects they are involved with.”
Additionally, CSC/BERD has launched external collaborations with Chapman University and Rubicon Technologies — bringing the total number of external clients to 10 — and has hired two programmer analysts to expand its offerings. “One of the things that we’ve realized is that, beyond just the physical support, a lot of researchers need help with data visualization, data management of large databases, things like that,” says Ricks-Oddie, “so we now provide that type of support.”
CSC/BERD also leverages faculty support. Because CSC is housed in the Statistics Department of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), if the statisticians don’t have the answer to your needs, they can create it. “If someone comes to us with a project that requires the development of a new statistical methodology that might be beyond the skill set of one of our statisticians, we can work with Professor of Statistics Babak Shahbaba, and he can put us in touch with a faculty member for collaboration on the project,” say Ricks-Oddie. “That’s been really successful.”
Another priority has been training. “We also want to make researchers feel better equipped in their own right,” she says. “Information has to be disseminated to them so that they can make sure that high quality research is going on all over campus.” Since she first took over as director back in 2018, she has brought on staff to develop and organize new workshops, including a free Stata training series. Check the website for upcoming events.
So whether you have a basic question about your scientific research or need in-depth statistical assistance, be sure to get in touch with CSC/BERD.
— Shani Murray

A Campus Gem: UCI’s Statistical Consulting Services
< Previous
 Professor Crooks to Discuss Education Technology in Working Class Communities of Color
            
Next >
 Exploring Design + Ethics: Gillian Hayes Discusses Inclusive Design with Industry Leaders
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











