https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-ranked-24th-in-undergraduate-computer-science-programs-by-u-s-news-world-report




UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022 
The 2022-23 U.S. News & World Report list of “Best Colleges” ranks UCI eighth among the nation’s public universities and 34th overall. Additionally, moving up a spot from 2021, UCI is 24th for undergraduate Computer Science Programs — a category added to the rankings just last year.

“We continue to climb and place among the best in the nation,” says Tony Givargis, professor and chair of the Department of Computer Science. “As one of the largest CS undergraduate programs in the U.S., and one of the premier research universities, our program offers unparalleled flexibility and a multitude of specialization tracks for our undergraduates.” In addition to general computer science, students can specialize in algorithms; architecture and embedded systems; bioinformatics; information, intelligent or networked systems; systems and software; or visual computing.
Furthermore, UCI’s computer science program is unique in that it is housed in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), which is comprised of three departments: Computer Science, Informatics, and Statistics.
“I think that some of the program’s strengths lie in how diverse the school is,” says senior computer science major Nicole Pham, co-president of the ICS Student Council. “I had never really been exposed to informatics before attending UCI, and I think it’s really cool that I’ve been able to take classes that aren’t simply coding while pursuing my degree in CS.” Pham is set to graduate in June 2023 and is currently a software engineering intern at Meta.
ICS also has some of the nation’s most prestigious computer science scholars — 38, according to the Guide2Research rankings. At the top of this list is Distinguished Professor Gene Tsudik, for his work in computer networks and applied cryptography, and Distinguished Professor Pierre Baldi, for his work in artificial intelligence, machine learning, and genetics and protein secondary structure.
“It is exciting,” stresses Givargis, “to be part of a department that is dedicated to exceptional research and high-quality education in a profoundly impactful academic discipline.”
— Shani Murray
« Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of InternshipsCPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




