https://www.ics.uci.edu/~dgillen







Daniel Gillen, PhD | Statistics – University of California, Irvine




























Skip to content



 



Daniel Gillen, PhD | Statistics
University of California, Irvine








    Menu	
Home
News
Curriculum Vitae
Research
Lab Members
Publications
Teaching
Book

  Scroll down to content












Biography










Daniel L. Gillen, PhDChancellor’s Professor and Chair of StatisticsChancellor’s Professor of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, and  Population Health & Disease Prevention 
2038 Bren Hall949.824.9862dgillen@uci.edu


Research Program Overview
My group has broad interest in developing and applying statistical methods for biomedical applications. We specialize in survival analysis, longitudinal methods, clinical trials design, sequential testing, and spatial risk estimation. More recently, members of my group have also focused on biomarker development, estimation and prediction under biased sampling, and causal effects estimation. I have served as a special government employee (SGE) and advisor to the US FDA for the past 15 years.  In this capacity, I have serve on various advisory committees including BRUDAC, Cardio Renal, Drug Safety, and EMDAC, among others.  I am also active in working with industry sponsor to design and monitor international multisite clinical trials.  I have served as member or chair on the independent data and safety monitoring committee (iDMC) for over 50 clinical trials. 
Biography
I am Chancellor’s Professor and Chair of Statistics at UC Irvine.  My Google Scholar page is available here.
Education
Ph.D., Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA (2003)
M.S., Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA (2001) 
B.S., Mathematics, Cal Poly State University, San Luis Obispo, CA, USA (1997)











		Proudly powered by WordPress	

















































































































































































