https://duttgroup.ics.uci.edu/projects






Projects – Dutt Research Group














































Skip to content






 

Dutt Research Group
DRG-Lab Webpage








DRG Home
Group Members
Projects

Self-Aware & Adaptive Computing

Information Processing Factory (IPF)
MARS
Unified Parallel Runtime
Memory Adaptation


Health Care IoT

Internet of Cognitive Things in healthcare
Pain Assessment
Maternity Care
NSF Unite Project


Domain-specific Hardware Accelerators
Neuromorphic Computing


Publications
Sister Groups
News




Main Menu










Projects 



  Publicly available code repository:   https://github.com/duttresearchgroup   



 

Health-Care IoT Projects

	A series of projects around the subject of human health and interaction with wearable devices. Some subjects are related to pain, stress, maternity care, and IoT power management and communication. Read more.


 

Self-Aware & Adaptive Computing

	This series of projects introduce the notion of self-awareness in different topics and levels of abstraction. They include a range of memory adaptation to applications. Read more.


 

Domain-specific Hardware Accelerators

	Accelerators have been widely employed in various domains. Fast exploration of the design space for accelerators is important to reduce the time-to-market. We perform fast exploration of the design space of programmable accelerators for deep neural networks and post-quantum cryptographic schemes. Read more.


 

Neuromorphic Computing

Neuromorphic Computing. Read more.


Past Projects 





SYSTEMLSI: Mobile GPU Synergistic Memory Optimizations and Energy-Efficient DVFS Policies for Graphics-Intensive Applications
SyNAPSE: Systems of Neuromorphic Adaptive Plastic Scalable Electronics, in collaboration with Cognitive Anteater Robotics Laboratory (CARL)
Variability Expedition: Variability-Aware Software for Efficient Computing with Nanoscale Devices
CYPRESS: CYber-Physical RESilience & Sustainability
Dynamo: Power Aware Middleware for Distributed Mobile Computing
xTune: A Formal Methodology for Cross-layer Tuning of Mobile Real-time Embedded Systems
eCACTI: An Enhanced Power Estimation Model for On-chip Caches
COPPER: Compiler-Controlled Continuous Power-Performance Management
DREAM: Distributed Real-time Embedded Analysis Method
EXPRESSION: A Language for Architectural Exploration through Compiler/Simulator Retargetability
FORGE: A Framework for Optimization of Distributed Embedded Systems Software
SPARK: A Parallelizing Approach to the High-Level Synthesis of Digital Circuits

 









Find Us Address
3069 Donald Bren Hall
University of California, Irvine
Irvine, CA 92697-3435, USA
Email
drg@ics.uci.edu

 









					Copyright © 2022 Dutt Research Group.				

					Powered by WordPress and HitMag.				




 







