http://www.ics.uci.edu/~dechter/acp_award.html







Dr. Rina Dechter @ UCI :: ACP Award









Prof. Rina Dechter, Ph.D 
Artificial Intelligence
Office: DBH 4232
Phone: 1.949.824.6556
Email: dechter_at_ics.uci.edu



  Highlights and News  



AAAS FELLOW

7 UCI Researchers Are Elected AAAS Fellows



FACULTY SPOTLIGHT

Rina Dechter is Pushing the Frontiers of Research



AIJ 2020 CLASSIC PAPER AWARD
Dechter, Meiri and Pearl received the 2020 AIJ Classic
Paper Award for their 1991 paper Temporal Constraint Networks. (Previous recipients of the award can be found here)




 DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR 







A Trio of New Distinguished Professors in ICS


BOOK (2019)Second edition of my book: "Reasoning with Probabilistic and Deerministic Graphical Models" just appeared


NEWS 







Charles River Analytics uses FIGRAO to develop probabilistic reasoning tools for US Air Force satellites


PACE CHALLENGE (2016)
Our CVO algorithm won first place in the parallel heuristic treewidth category of the 1st Parameterized Algorithms and Computational Experiments (PACE) Challenge.
(link / paper / slides)
BOOK (2013) Reasoning with Probabilistic and Deterministic Graphical Models: Exact Algorithms 
AWARD 
2013 ACM Fellow
(link 1 /
link 2)

PASCAL CHALLENGE (2012)Solvers by current and former students won first places in all nine categories of the 2011 PASCAL Probabilistic Inference Challenge. (link 1 / link 2)
UAI COMPETITION (2010)Our solvers IJGP and FormulaSampleSearch won first places in two categories each, Daoopt won third place in three categories. (link 1 / link 2)




MINI-SCHOOLUCI Lifted Algorithms Mini-School (November 3-6)

BOOK (2010)'Heuristic, probability and Causality: a tribute to Judea Pearl' (link)
IJCAI 2013 TUTORIAL Constraint Processing and Probabilistic Reasoning 

More










Home
Biographical
Research Overview
My Group
Publications 
Selected Talks
Awards
Software 
Courses
My Books









2007 ACP Research Excellence Award to Rina Dechter


ACP is the
						Association of Constraint Programming.
						Its announcement of the ACP 2007 research excellence award reads as
						follows:
For the third time we are giving
						the "ACP award for Research Excellence in constraint programming",
						whose purpose is to celebrate those CP researchers who have made
						exceptional and very influential research contributions to CP with
						their work.
This year the award committee, consisting of Francesca Rossi, Pedro
						Meseguer, Christian Bessiere (program chair of CP 2007), Eugene Freuder
						and Pascal Van Hentenryck (the receipients of the last two research
						awards), decided to give the 2007 ACP award on research excellence on
						constraint programming to Rina Dechter, for a program of sustained high
						quality research in constraint processing, with numerous influential
						results and great impact on Artificial Intelligence.
Rina's nomination was presented by Javier Larrosa, who put together an
						excellent nomination package consisting of very enthusiastic support
						from seven leading researchers in CP, AI, and DB.
						Rina Dechter obtained her Ph.D. in Computer Science from UCLA in 1985
						with Judea Pearl. She the remained there until 1987 as a post-doc and
						in 1988 as a research associate. She then joined the Technion in Israel
						as senior lecturer from 1988 to 1990, and finally she joined UC Irvine
						in 1990, where she is now full professor of computer science.
Rina's research activity is very extensive (she has published 90
						conference papers and 35 journal papers) and includes several
						pioneering and very influential structure-based techniques, such as
						directional consistency, adaptive consistency, tree clustering,
						cycle-cutset schemes, backjumping, and search-based non-good learning.
						Moreover, she introduced the temporal constraint framework, which is
						central in any scheme for planning and scheduling, including
						applications such as the NASA Deep Space project. She also defined the
						bucket elimination framework, which unifies dynamic programming for
						combinatorial optimization, probabilistic reasoning, and planning under
						uncertainty, obtaining very inspiring and influential results in all
						these fields.
Her book "Constraint Processing", published in 2003, covers most of the
						main notions and techniques in constraint processing, and has been very
						instrumental for the dissemination and visibility of CP, as well as the
						creation of a uniform body of knowledge, the birth of new university
						courses on CP, and the introduction of new young people to the field.
Rina's numerous and very influential results have inspired a whole
						generation of CPers, as well as researchers in planning, scheduling,
						knowledge representation and reasoning, uncertainty, probabilistic
						inference, and combinatorial optimization.
Award talk Slides



School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435
Dr. Rina Dechter
dechter at ics.uci.edu




