http://www.ics.uci.edu/~dsm/dyn/release/index.html
 

FORGE/Dynamo: Software Release Page









Navigation
                        
Home
Documentation
People
Publications
Related Links
FAQ
Research Homepage


Downloads
                        

Dynamo Framework v0.1
Power-Aware Kernel
System Query Libraries
Change log


Distribution
                        

Download Demo






Overview

                    It has been pointed out by several researchers that coordinated energy optimization across
                    various levels of system functionality and implementation (architecture, OS, network,
                    middleware & application) can lead to better performance and greater energy savings
                    than the case when these are individually optimized for power. The challenge is how these
                    optimizations can be coordinated across layers. What is the right architectural
                    framework that allows such optimizations/adaptations to occur simultaneously and even
                    dynamically? To answer these questions, we have proposed a proxy-based middleware solution
                    to accommodate optimizations across diverse clients with limited computation and battery power.
                    We try to improve the energy optimizations possible at each system level by exploiting
                    information available at other levels. The goal of our work is to exploit a distributed
                    power-aware middleware framework to coordinate low-level architectural
                    optimizations (CPU, memory, and register), OS power-saving mechanisms (Dynamic Voltage
                    Scaling) and adaptive middleware techniques (admission control, transcoding, network
                    traffic regulation, mobility etc.) for improving performance and energy gains for portable
                    devices. We also identify interaction parameters between the different computational levels
                    that can facilitate effective optimizations. Recent approaches towards power management suggest
                    such  open and flexible architecture for mobile devices that allows higher layers to make
                    informed adaptations at lower layers and vice-versa.
                


                    In practice, deployment of such a unified power management framework for mobile devices would
                    require a set of APIs (programming interfaces) to be implemented at the various computational
                    layers; this API should facilitate effective communication between the various levels. Such
                    a capability can be effectively exploited to drive various cross layer adaptations. We have
                    implemented such a framework as a part of the FORGE
                    project. The framework is designed to study and evaluate power vs. performance trade-offs for
                    various cross-layer adaptations and identify various "parameters" that can be dynamically tuned
                    to provide an optimized configuration for different applications.
                 
Dynamo Middleware Framework

                    The Dynamo distributed middleware framework is used in the above cross-layer adaptation framework
                    to coordinate low-level architectural optimizations, OS power saving mechanisms (Dynamic Voltage
                    Scaling) and Application requirements for improved performance and higher energy gains on
                    low-power mobile devices. Additionally, Dynamo employs adaptive middleware techniques (e.g.
                    admission control,proxy-based transcoding, intelligent network traffic regulation etc.) to
                    aid the power management at the portable device. The middleware effectively exploits local
                    information (e.g. residual  battery)
                    to perform adaptations at the proxy and utilizes global system state information (e.g. congestion
                    levels, mobility patterns etc.) available at the proxy to drive local adaptations.

                    Dynamo v.0.1 is implemented for the Linux operating system.
                    It has the following features:
                    
Libraries for dynamically querying system state for mobile devices.
Library for querying/setting back-light levels for low-power devices.
Communication Library for communicating with network machines.
Well defined interface definitions for cross-layer interactions with
                            applications, the power-aware OS and the proxy servers.


Power-Aware Operating System

                    The power aware operating system implements the Dynamic Frequency Scaling libraries over
                    the Linux kernel. The Linux kernel distribution is modified to keep track of application
                    execution times, deadlines and periods. This is achieved by adding new system calls into the
                    Linux kernel. The applications linked to the power aware kernel using the API are executed
                    as POSIX threads. The power aware API library also defines interfaces for the Dynamo middleware
                    to communicate with it.
                 

                      The block diagram below shows the various aspects of the cross layer framework.
                 








