https://www.ics.uci.edu/~dechter








Dr. Rina Dechter @ UCI :: Home









Prof. Rina Dechter, Ph.D 
Artificial Intelligence
Office: DBH 4232
Phone: 1.949.824.6556
Email: dechter_at_ics.uci.edu



  Highlights and News  



AAAS FELLOW

7 UCI Researchers Are Elected AAAS Fellows



FACULTY SPOTLIGHT

Rina Dechter is Pushing the Frontiers of Research



AIJ 2020 CLASSIC PAPER AWARD
Dechter, Meiri and Pearl received the 2020 AIJ Classic
Paper Award for their 1991 paper Temporal Constraint Networks. (Previous recipients of the award can be found here)




 DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR 







A Trio of New Distinguished Professors in ICS


BOOK (2019)Second edition of my book: "Reasoning with Probabilistic and Deerministic Graphical Models" just appeared


NEWS 







Charles River Analytics uses FIGRAO to develop probabilistic reasoning tools for US Air Force satellites


PACE CHALLENGE (2016)
Our CVO algorithm won first place in the parallel heuristic treewidth category of the 1st Parameterized Algorithms and Computational Experiments (PACE) Challenge.
(link / paper / slides)
BOOK (2013) Reasoning with Probabilistic and Deterministic Graphical Models: Exact Algorithms 
AWARD 
2013 ACM Fellow
(link 1 /
link 2)

PASCAL CHALLENGE (2012)Solvers by current and former students won first places in all nine categories of the 2011 PASCAL Probabilistic Inference Challenge. (link 1 / link 2)
UAI COMPETITION (2010)Our solvers IJGP and FormulaSampleSearch won first places in two categories each, Daoopt won third place in three categories. (link 1 / link 2)




MINI-SCHOOLUCI Lifted Algorithms Mini-School (November 3-6)

BOOK (2010)'Heuristic, probability and Causality: a tribute to Judea Pearl' (link)
IJCAI 2013 TUTORIAL Constraint Processing and Probabilistic Reasoning 

More










Home
Biographical
Research Overview
My Group
Publications 
Selected Talks
Awards
Software 
Courses
My Books









Research in my group: Automated reasoning in Artificial Intelligence


	My research is in the field of Automated Reasoning in Artificial Intelligence and focused on Graphical Models. Graph based models (e.g., Bayesian and constraint networks, influence diagrams and Markov decision processes) have become a central paradigm for knowledge representation and reasoning in both Artificial Intelligence and Computer Science in general. These models are used to accomplish many science and engineering tasks, such as scheduling, planning and learning, diagnosis and prediction, design, hardware and software verification and bioinformatics. These reasoning problems can be stated as the formal tasks of constraint satisfaction and satisfiability, combinatorial optimization and probabilistic inference. It is well known that these tasks are computationally hard, but research during the past three decades has yielded a variety of principles and techniques for significantly advancing the state of the art. Our approach is to devise methods through the understanding and exploitation of tractable reasoning tasks and use those islands of tractability in the design of general anytime algorithms. As their name implies, anytime methods provide a solution anytime during the processing, with the added provision that the quality of the solution improves if more time is available.


To summarize, my research interests are in the areas of Automated Reasoning, Knowledge-Representation, Planning and Learning.

	


School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435
Dr. Rina Dechter
dechter at ics.uci.edu




