https://www.ics.uci.edu/~galbraic




Chris Galbraith | UC Irvine






chris galbraith

PhD Candidate
Statistics
University of California, Irvine


Room 4059
Donald Bren Hall
Irvine, CA 92617
galbraic [at] uci [dot] edu






ABOUT    
CV    
CODE    




        I am a PhD candidate in the Department of Statistics at the University of California, Irvine, being advised by Padhraic Smyth. I am also an organizer and instructor for the UCI Data Science Initiative. My research interests include machine learning, applied statistics, and Bayesian methodologies with an emphasis on user-behavior modeling.

        

        When I'm not working as a data scientist, I enjoy hiking with my Pomeranian, Buzz, and Border Collie mix, Bandit; snowboarding; and sampling craft beers. I'm also an avid sports fan, and anytime the Nebraska Cornhuskers, Minnesota Vikings, or Dallas Mavericks are playing you will probably find me watching.

        
News: I have taken a full-time position at Obsidian Security, and will be working while finishing my PhD.

	

PUBLICATIONS



Chris Galbraith and Padhraic Smyth.  Analyzing user-event data using score-based likelihood ratios with marked point processes.  Digital Investigation, Volume 22, Supplement, 2017, Pages S106-S114, ISSN 1742-2876.
     

TALKS



Quantifying Association Between Discrete Event Time Series 
JSM Topic Contributed Papers: Statistical Applications in Forensic Evidence
Jul 31, 2018


Quantifying the Association Between Discrete Event Time Series (poster) 
CSAFE Meeting
Jun 11, 2018


Quantifying the Association Between Discrete Event Time Series 
UCI Statistics Department
May 25, 2018


Statistical Analysis of User-Event Data in a Digital Forensics Context
ICFIS Memorial Invited Session: Remembering Stephen E. Fienberg
Sep 6, 2017


Analyzing User-Event Data Using Score-based Likelihood Ratios with Marked Point Processes
DFRWS USA
Aug 9, 2017


Statistical Analysis of User-Event Data for Digital Forensics [Poster]
CSAFE Meeting
Jun 8, 2017




TEACHING

uci data science initiative workshops


Introduction to Data Analysis with R

csulb workshops


Introduction to Programming & Data Analysis with R

uci courses
    STATS 7 - Teacher's Assistant for introductory course in basic statistics (Winter 2017)
	






