http://www.ics.uci.edu/~jutts/response.html





Response to Ray Hyman's Report (AIR)


Jessica Utts
Home Page

Copyright Notice
     Article
References
 
RESPONSE TO RAY HYMAN'S REPORT 
of September 11, 1995
"Evaluation of Program on Anomalous Mental Phenomena"
Professor
Jessica Utts
Division of Statistics
University of California, Davis
September 15,
1995
Ray Hyman's report of September 11, 1995, written partially in
response to my report of September 1, 1995 elucidates the issues
on which he and I agree and disagree. I basically concur with his
assessment of where we agree and disagree, but there are three
issues he raises with regard to the scientific status of
parapsychology to which I would like to respond. 
1. "Only parapsychology, among the fields of
inquiry claiming scientific status, lacks a cumulative database
(p. 6)." 
It is simply not true that parapsychology lacks a cumulative
database. In fact, the accumulated database is truly impressive
for a science that has had so few resources. While critics are
fond of relating, as Professor Hyman does in his report, that
there has been "more than a century of parapsychological
research (p. 7)" psychologist Sybo Schouten (1993, p. 316)
has noted that the total human and financial resources devoted to
parapsychology since 1882 is at best equivalent to the
expenditures devoted to fewer than two months of research in
conventional psychology in the United States. 
On pages 4 and 5 of their September 29, 1994 SAIC final
report, May, Luke and James summarize four reports that do
precisely what Professor Hyman claims is not done in
parapsychology; they put forth the accumulated evidence for
anomalous cognition in a variety of formats. Rather than
dismissing the former experiments, parapsychologists build on
them. As in any area of science, it is of course the most recent
experiments that receive the most attention, but that does not
mean that the field would divorce itself from past work. Quite to
the contrary, past experimental results and methodological
weaknesses are used to design better and more efficient
experiments. 
As an example of the normal progress of inquiry expected in
any area of science, the autoganzfeld experiments currently
conducted by parapsychologists did not simply spring out of thin
air. The original ganzfeld experiments followed from Honorton's
observation at Maimonides Medical Center, that anomalous
cognition seemed to work well in dreams. He investigated ways in
which a similar state could be achieved in normal waking hours,
and found the ganzfeld regime in another area of psychology. The
automated ganzfeld followed from a critical evaluation of the
earlier ganzfeld experiments, and a set of conditions agreed upon
by Honorton and Professor Hyman. The current use of dynamic
targets in autoganzfeld experiments follows from the observation
that they were more successful than static targets in the initial
experiments. The investigation of entropy at SAIC follows from
this observation as well. This is just one example of how current
experiments are built from past results. 
2. "Only parapsychology claims to be a science on
the basis of phenomena (or a phenomenon) whose presence can be
detected only by rejecting a null hypothesis (p. 8)." 
While it is true that parapsychology has not figured out all
the answers, it does not differ from normal science in this
regard. It is the norm of scientific progress to make
observations first, and then to attempt to explain them. Before
quantum mechanics was developed there were a number of anomalies
observed in physics that could not be explained. There are many
observations in physics and in the social and medical sciences
that can be observed, either statistically or deterministically,
but which cannot be explained. 
As a more recent example, consider the impact of
electromagnetic fields on health. An article in Science
(Vol. 269, 18 August 1995, p. 911) reported that "After
spending nearly a decade reviewing the literature on
electromagnetic fields (EMFs), a panel of the National Council on
Radiation Protection and Measurements (NCRP) has produced a draft
report concluding that some health effects linked to EMFs such as
cancer and immune deficiencies appear real and warrant steps to
reduce EMF exposure... Biologists have failed to pinpoint a
convincing mechanism of action." In other words, a
statistical effect has been convincingly established and it is
now the responsibility of science to attempt to establish its
mechanism, just as in parapsychology. 
As yet another example, consider learning and memory, which
have long been studied in psychology. We know they exist, but
brain researchers are just beginning to understand how they work
by using sophisticated brain imaging techniques. Psychologists do
not understand these simple human capabilities, and they
certainly do not understand other observable human phenomena such
as what causes people to fall in love. Yet, no one would deny the
existence of these phenomena just because we do not understand
them. 
In any area involving the natural variability inherent in
humans, science progresses by first observing a statistical
difference and then attempting to explain it. At this stage, I
believe parapsychology has convincingly demonstrated that an
effect is present, and future research attempts should be
directed at finding an explanation. In this regard parapsychology
in on par with scientific questions like the impact of
electromagnetic fields on health, or the cross-cultural
differences in memory that have been observed by psychologists. 
3. "Parapsychology is the only field of
scientific inquiry that does not have even one exemplar that can
be assigned to students with the expectation that they will
observe the original results (p. 18)." 
I disagree with this statement for two reasons. First, I can
name other phenomena for which students could not be expected to
do a simple experiment and observe a result, such as the
connection between taking aspirin and preventing heart attacks or
the connection between smoking and getting lung cancer. What
differentiates these phenomena from simple experiments like
splitting light with a prism is that the effects are statistical
in nature and are not expected to occur every single time. Not
everyone who smokes gets lung cancer, but we can predict the
proportion who will. Not everyone who attempts anomalous
cognition will be successful, but I think we can predict the
proportion of time success should be achieved. 
Since I believe the probability of success has been
established in the autoganzfeld experiments, I would offer them
as the exemplar Professor Hyman requests. The problem is that to
be relatively assured of a successful outcome requires several
hundred trials, and no student has the resources to commit to
this experiment. As I have repeatedly tried to explain to
Professor Hyman and others, when dealing with a small to medium
effect it takes hundreds or sometimes thousands of trials to
establish "statistical significance." In fact, the
Physicians Health Study that initially established the link
between taking aspirin and reducing heart attacks studied over
22,000 men. Had it been conducted on only 2,200 men with the same
reduction in heart attacks, it would not have achieved
statistical significance. Should students be required to recruit
22,000 participants and conduct such an experiment before we
believe the connection between aspirin and heart attacks is real?

Despite Professor Hyman's continued protests about
parapsychology lacking repeatability, I have never seen a skeptic
attempt to perform an experiment with enough trials to even come
close to insuring success. The parapsychologists who have
recently been willing to take on this challenge have indeed found
success in their experiments, as described in my original report.


REFERENCE
SCHOUTEN, SYBO
(1993). "Are we making progress?" In Psi Research
Methodology: A Re-examination, Proceedings of an International
Conference, Oct 29-30, 1988, edited by L. Coly and J.
McMahon, NY: Parapsychology Foundation, Inc., pgs. 295-322. 

COPYRIGHT NOTICE
The contents of this document are copyright ©1995 by Jessica
Utts. All rights reserved.

Jessica
Utts Home Page


