https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1491



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



February 15,  2019


CPRI Receives $1.4M Gift for Securing the Seams of the Internet of Everything



The Herman P. & Sophia Taubman Foundation has provided a generous
 gift of $1.4 million to UCI’s Cybersecurity Policy & Research 
Institute (CPRI), led by Executive Director Bryan Cunningham.
 Founded in the 1960s by the six children of Herman and Sophia Taubman, 
the foundation aims to promote the advancement of scientific research, 
higher education and community philanthropy. Six Taubman cousins manage 
the foundation, including attorney Perry Taubman, currentlya
 visiting scholar at UC San Diego researching autonomous agents for 
medical diagnosis and insurance coding. Taubman and his cousins 
understand the crucial need for research focused on cybersecurity and 
the emerging Internet of Everything (IoE) — that is, the interaction 
between the traditional internet and the hundreds of millions of 
connected Internet of Things (IoT) devices.
“The board members of the foundation have professional careers in 
law, technology, medicine and infrastructure finance,” says Taubman. “We
 have all been concerned for a long time about cybersecurity in terms of
 our professional fields and as citizens on the level of national 
security.” Consequently, the foundation was seeking ways to advance 
practical solutions in this area. “I personally looked at the 
cybersecurity research programs at a number of universities and felt 
that CPRI, under Bryan Cunningham’s leadership, had a uniquely suited 
focus around all of these areas.”
Cunningham is excited about this partnership to “secure the seams of 
the IoE.” As he notes, “we could not be more thrilled with the Taubman 
family’s support and with Perry’s participation in our efforts.” Drawing
 on UCI’s multidisciplinary expertise, these new IoE efforts aim to fill
 a void in current cybersecurity-related research and policy and 
technical solutions development. “Our very strong team will address 
important and pressing issues affecting not only the privacy and 
security of individuals but also our country’s economic and national 
security,” he explains. “This mission is squarely in CPRI’s wheelhouse.”
The foundation’s gift will provide resources to support three new 
CPRI projects focused on the IoT and IoE. Computer Science Professor Ian Harris
 is leading efforts to perform IoT/IoE technical testing and develop an 
IoE Cyber Test Range on the UCI campus, and Computer Science Professor Scott Jordan is heading up research into regulation and standards setting. UCI Law Professor Shauhin Talesh is exploring the emerging role of insurance companies as de facto cyber regulators. Cunningham will act as the overall lead for the interrelated projects.
“All of these areas are critical for advancing cybersecurity,” says 
Taubman. Furthermore, the projects address his two main concerns 
surrounding IoE — the lack of standards and the difficulty in securing 
embedded systems. “This requires expertise in engineering that is very 
different from traditional security,” he explains. “We found a unique 
team on the technical side with Ian and Scott who were able to approach 
the problem from both an engineering and policy perspective.”
The gift will provide funding for Ph.D. candidate researchers, 
facilities and equipment for IoE testing, data analysis support, and 
standards and policy development. It will also support undergraduate 
research and education, enable CPRI and its team to hold multiple 
conferences, and support UCI students in cybersecurity “Capture the 
Flag” competitions.
All of this fits well with the Taubman Foundation’s goal of 
supporting scientific research and higher education in an effort to 
build a more security-minded engineering culture. “Our vision is that 
security will become a fundamental concern of engineers and companies 
for every relevant device, as opposed to an afterthought,” says Taubman.
 “There is a critical shortage of security engineers right now that 
needs to be addressed by higher education, but even more important is 
developing a culture of security engineering in all who graduate from 
our schools of engineering.”
— Shani Murray

CPRI Receives $1.4M Gift for Securing the Seams of the Internet of Everything
< Previous
 ICS Honors Four Alumni at 2019 Hall of Fame Celebration
            
Next >
 The 100 Leading Pioneers Of AI Drug Development
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











