http://www.ics.uci.edu/grad/degrees/degree_inf-ict.php



concentration in informatics - track in interactive and collaborative technology @ the bren school of information and computer sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Graduate / Degrees


Information and Computer Science Degree

The UCI General Catalogue is the official guide to all degree and graduation requirements; the information below is intended for general planning purposes only. Please see here for previous calendar years

Concentration in Informatics - Track in Interactive and Collaborative Technology (INF-ICT), (M.S. and Ph.D.)
The ICT track of the Informatics concentration focuses on studying and enhancing the relationship between the design and use of interactive systems and their applications in real-world settings.

CURRENT DEGREE REQUIREMENTS

UCI enjoys an international reputation for its research on the human and social dimensions of computer system design and use. There are two principal strands to this work. The first concerns the interaction between people and computers, including novel forms of interactive experience beyond traditional desktop computing. The second concerns the role that computer systems can play in collaborative work between individuals, groups, and organizations.
Examples of topics that ICT researchers investigate include: adoption and diffusion of collaborative technologies; software architectures for user-adaptive systems; universal access to interactive systems; design principles for information visualization; and new patterns of computer-mediated work such as virtual teams.
The approach used places equal emphasis on three areas of investigation--empirical, theoretical, and technical. The empirical work involves studying technology in use, using both laboratory techniques and fieldwork investigations of real-world settings. The theoretical research employs and develops analytic understanding of the relationships among technology, people, organizations, and social settings. Finally, in the technical work, ICT researchers develop new models and technologies for interaction with and collaboration through technology. Students in the ICT track gain a thorough grounding in all three areas.
The cornerstone of this approach is to study real use of technology, as it occurs in real-world settings. ICT researchers believe that the success or failure of technology depends on how people can fit that technology into real practice, balancing technical, cognitive, social, and cultural dimensions.
Using an interdisciplinary approach, ICT research aims at a deeper understanding of interaction with and collaboration through technology, and at exploiting these insights for the design of better systems.




More Graduate

Contact
Prospective students
How to Apply

Academic year plan
Course Updates
Forms and Policies
Admissions FAQ
Funding
Housing
Computing support
Campus resources
Visit the Bren School
 








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











