http://www.ics.uci.edu/~gmark/Home_page/Welcome.html









Gloria Mark














 
  











 


 



Gloria Mark





 
 



The world is continuing to
                    shrink as social computing grows. Never before have
                    people been able to connect to others and to
                    information sources so rapidly and on such a global
                    scale. This is a fascinating time to study how
                    technology use affects people. My research area is
                    human-computer interaction (HCI) studying how
                    technology has impacted individuals, groups, and
                    society. I am particularly interested in studying
                    how people interact with information technology in
                    their everyday life: how it affects multitasking,
                    attention, mood, and above all, stress. Rather than
                    bring people into a laboratory to study, I go to
                    where people are--the real world is a living
                    laboratory. To study people and their technology
                    use, I employ a method called precision tracking,
                    which involves a combination of sensors,
                    bio-sensors, experience sampling, surveys, and
                    ethnographic techniques to gain a very detailed,
                    comprehensive, and in-depth understanding of what
                    people experience when they use computer technology.
                    I study real-world technology usage in the workplace
                    and also with students who grew up with the
                    Internet. I also study how people use social media
                    and computer systems to be resilient during and
                    after environmental crises. I invite you to take a
                    closer look at some of the projects that my students
                    and I are involved in.

 





Chancellor's Professor

Department of Informatics



Donald Bren School of
                    Information and Computer Sciences



University of California,
                    Irvine




  


 

 

 




























Research



Bio



Curriculum vitae



Students



Media reports



Videos of talks











Department


                    of Informatics

5212 Donald Bren Hall

University of California, Irvine

Irvine, CA 92697



Office:  +1-949-824-5955



Fax:     


                    +1-949-824-1715



g m a r k  [at]  u c i
                    . e d u










 

 





 


 
  





