http://www.ics.uci.edu/~muhammti





Twaha Ibrahim - PhD Student at UC Irvine





























 Menu
Twaha Ibrahim 




  
 About 
 Education 
 Experience 
 Skills 
 Publications 
 Resume 










About Me






Hello, I'm Twaha! I'm a PhD student (2017 - Present) in UC Irvine's Computer Science Department.
        		I'm working with Prof. Aditi Majumder 
        		in the iGravi Lab. My research interests lie in the overlap of computer vision, graphics and visualization. My current research is in the domain of real-time multi-projector display systems that adapt to changing surface geometry and their application to projection-based augmented reality systems for creating interactive 3D experiences.
        		Before joining UC Irvine, I worked at Epic Systems, a healthcare software company, as a software developer on their surgical management team. In summer 2018, I had a great time at Google's Mobile Vision team working on face recognition.
        		I received my Master's degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Cornell University, where I was advised by Professor Tsuhan Chen. I did my bachelors in Computer Systems Engineering from NUST University.
        		Reach out to me at muhammti at uci dot edu.
        	
Download Resume









Education












University of California, Irvine
Sept. 2017 - Present
Doctorate in Computer Science


Research Focus: Real-time, surface-adaptive multi-projector display systems & projection-based augmented reality systems for creating interactive 3D experiences.









Cornell University
Aug. 2013 - May 2014
Master of Electrical and Computer Engineering


M-Eng. Project: Quadcopter control using Comptuer Vision. Awarded honorable mention at Cornell ECE Day 2014.









National University ofScience & Technology
Sept. 2007 - Sept. 2011
Bachelor of Computer Systems Engineering


Final Year Project: Digital Drawing Board using a Projector-Camera pair. Awarded second place in Microsoft-Pakistan Imagine Cup 2011.











Work Experience











Summit Technology Laboratoy
Sept. 2020 - Present
Computer Graphics Researcher


I am responsible for researching and developing algorithms for creating high-resolution, seamless multi-projector display systems, improving the system runtime efficiency by exploiting GPU and multi-threading paradigms. Additionally, I also manage a team of engineering interns to develop new algorithms and modules.









Google LLC.
Jun. 2018 - Sept. 2018
Software Developer Intern


I designed, developed and evaluated a face recognition system using deep learning and convolutional neural networks. I presented results to the team and recommended potential ways to further improve recognition.









Epic Systems Inc.
Apr. 2015 - May 2017
Software Developer


I was responsible for designing, developing and maintaining Epic’s surgery management software suite. I also frequently visited customer sites to provide support and gather requirements for designing new functionality.









Futurewei (Huawei) Technologies Inc.
Jul. 2014 - Jan. 2015
Research Intern


I researched on panoramic video and super resolution cameras using Raspberry Pi boards. I constructed the video rig, implemented and analyzed the performance of multiple color correction algorithms on panoramic video.









VISPro Research Group
Aug. 2011 - Aug. 2013
Research Assistant and Teacher Assistant


I was responsible for researching and developing an image stitching software in a joint project with ETRI (South Korea). My research was published in a conference paper, a journal paper and we also filed a patent. As a teacher assistant, I co-developed and managed Verilog lab work for 75 students at graduate and undergraduate levels.












Technical Skills




   
C/C++

   
MATLAB

   
Python

   
Java

   
Azure Kinect SDK

   
OpenCV

   
Tensorflow








Publications






All
Publications
Conference Publications
Journal Publications
Patents










 

Dynamic projection mapping on deformable stretchable materials using boundary tracking
CnG 2022 
  




 

Dynamic Projection Mapping of Deformable Stretchable Materials
VRST 2020 
  




 

Increasing Spatial Resolution of Panoramic Video Captured By A Camera Array
Published: January 19, 2017 
  




 

Automatic selection of color reference image for panoramic stitching
Springer 2015 
  




 

Color Correction Apparatus For Panorama Video Stitching And Method For Selecting Reference Image Using The Same
Published: March 13, 2014 
  




 

Automatic Reference Selection for Parametric Color Correction Schemes for Panoramic Video Stitching
ISVC 2012 
  























Copyright © 2016 Twaha Ibrahim.















