http://malek.ics.uci.edu



Sam Malek - Home Page
















        Home     
        Curriculum Vitae     
        Publications     
        Research Lab     
    










Sam Malek
 Professor








University of California, Irvine
School of Information and Computer Sciences 
Department of Informatics 
Institute for Software Research 
Software Engineering and Analysis Laboratory 


Office: ISEB 2446 
Mail: 5019 Donald Bren Hall 
                                CA 92697-3440 
Phone: +1 (949) 824-0639 
Email: last name at uci dot edu
                        









        Sam Malek is a Professor in the  Informatics Department within the School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. He is also Director of the Institute for Software Research and Software Engineering and Analysis Laboratory.  
        Malek's general research interests are in the field of software engineering, and to date his focus has spanned the areas of software analysis and testing, mobile computing, security, software architecture, and accessible computing. The underlying theme of his research has been to devise techniques and tools that aid with the construction, analysis, and maintenance of large-scale software systems. 
        Malek received his Ph.D. and M.S. degrees in Computer Science from the  University of Southern California  and his B.S. degree in Information and Computer Science from the University of California, Irvine. He has received numerous awards for his research contributions, including the ACM SIGSOFT test-of-time award (2020), National Science Foundation CAREER award (2013), GMU Emerging Researcher/Scholar/Creator award (2013), and GMU Computer Science Department Outstanding Faculty Research Award (2011). 
        Malek is currently on the editorial board of the ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, ACM Transactions on Autonomous and Adaptive Systems, and  Springer Journal of Computing . He has testified on multiple occasions as a software expert witness in intellectual property litigation matters through Cyberonix and Quandary Peak Research. 
        Malek is a member of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), ACM Special Interest Group on Software Engineering (SIGSOFT), and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).
        










