https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/features/view_feature?id=90



















ABOUT

About the School
Dean's Welcome
Facts and Figures
Donald Bren Hall
Visit the Bren School
Equity & Diversity
Contact Us



 DEPARTMENTS 

Computer Science
Informatics
Statistics



 RESEARCH 

Research Areas
Research Centers
Research Highlights



 STUDENTS 

Graduate ▸ 

Prospective Students
How to Apply
Programs of Study
Academic Year Plan
Forms
Policies
Funding & Housing
Computing Support
Campus Resources
Visit the Bren School
Graduate Student Handbook
Contact


Undergraduate ▸ 

Contact
Academic Advising
Course Updates
Academic Year Plan
Petitions
ICS Majors
ICS Minors
Policies: Academic Integrity
Policies: Academic Standing
Policies: Add, drop, & change options
Policies: Coursework outside UCI
Policies: Grade policy
Policies: Laptop & computer use
Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission
Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses
Graduation
ICS Student Life
Upcoming Events
Computing Support


Scholarships & Fellowships
Student Jobs & Internships



PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Graduate Students



NEWS & EVENTS

Newsroom
Events
Press Releases
Annual Reports
Student Blogs



GET INVOLVED

Make a Gift
Alumni
Leadership Council
Corporate Partners
Sponsor Projects
Product Development Competition








Bren school home / Community / News / Features







Two ICS professors named 2015 ACM FellowsDecember 9, 2015

Informatics Professor Paul Dourish and Computer Science Professor Michael Franz honored for their outstanding accomplishments in computing and IT



The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), the world’s largest educational and scientific computing society, has announced that two professors at UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences — Paul Dourish from the Department of Informatics and Michael Franz from the Department of Computer Science — have been named 2015 ACM Fellows. 


Established in 1993, the ACM Fellows Program recognizes its top members for outstanding accomplishments in computing and information technology. Of the 42 ACM Fellows who were named this year from the association’s more than 100,000 member, UCI was one of the few universities with two Fellows recognized for 2015. ACM President Alexander L. Wolf acknowledged the advances made by this year’s ACM Fellows: “These newly minted ACM Fellows are responsible for the breakthroughs and industrial innovations that are transforming society at every level. At times, the contributions of a Fellow may include enhancements to a device that immediately impacts our daily lives. At other times, new research discoveries lead to theoretical advances that, while perhaps not immediately perceptible, have substantial long-term impacts.”


Informatics Professor Paul Dourish was honored as an ACM Fellow for his contributions in social computing and human-computer interaction. His research interests lie at the intersection of computer science and social science, with a particular interest in ubiquitous and mobile computing and the cultural practices surrounding new media. He has published two books and more than 100 scientific articles, and holds 19 U.S. patents.


“I’m delighted to be named an ACM Fellow, not least for the honor itself, but also for the recognition it brings to the work that we’ve been doing at UCI for many years now, bridging between technical and sociocultural traditions in informatics,” says Dourish. “Three of this year’s class of fellows are working in HCI, and along with the other Fellows here at ICS, this really underscores the significance and impact of the UCI flavor of informatics research that we have been developing.” 


Computer Science Professor Michael Franz, who also serves as director of UCI’s Secure Systems and Languages Laboratory, earned the ACM Fellow rank for his contributions to just-in-time compilation and optimization to compiler techniques for computer security. He has graduated 25 Ph.D. students as primary advisor, and published more than 130 peer-reviewed scientific articles. He holds four U.S. Patents, including a patent on the trace-based technology that forms the basis of the original JavaScript just-in-time compiler in the Firefox web browser that was developed in collaboration between Mozilla and Dr. Franz’s lab at UCI.
 

"Our contributions to open-source software have been used by literally hundreds of millions of people on a daily basis," says Franz. "And our underlying research has been appearing in some of the most prestigious publication venues across all of computer science. Being recognized as an ACM Fellow is truly the icing on the cake."


ACM will formerly recognize the 2015 Fellows at its annual awards banquet this June in San Francisco.



UCI ICS Feature: Two ICS professors named 2015 ACM Fellows




More news and events

News Stories
Press releases
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu.
Quick Links 
- select a page -
Computing support
CS Seminar Series
Employment
Facilities
Find faculty and staff
Giving to the Bren School
Graduate degrees
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Project ICS
Prospective undergraduates
Safety procedures
Undergraduate degrees

       

Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet




