https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1127



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



February 2,  2017


Global Game Jam connects UCI with OC's game design community
Professor Tanenbaum brought together 130 people who collectively created 20 wave-themed games in 48 hours.

This year’s Global Game Jam (GGJ) was a huge success for UC Irvine and GGJ site organizer Theresa Jean Tanenbaum, assistant professor of informatics at UCI. For 48 hours of game development mayhem from Jan. 20-22, 130 people joined the fun, compared to the roughly 50 participants GGJ had last year. This was the third year Tanenbaum has hosted the event at UC Irvine.

Global Game Jam is an annual event celebrated locally in more than 90 countries. It is known for its radical inclusiveness, encouraging game enthusiasts of all genders, ages, socioeconomic status and industry to gather together, form teams and create an original game over the weekend. UCI teams accomplished the amazing feat of producing 20 games this year during GGJ.
“There is something truly unique and powerful about knowing that thousands of other creative people around the world are also working on games together with you,” said Tanenbaum. “It’s really fun to be even a small part of such a large experience.”
A diverse range of people showed up to this year’s jam, ranging from a troop of Girl Scouts to professional programmers and artists from the game development industry.
“Having a jam site in Irvine has been great for our students, and also for building relationships with the broader game design community in Orange County,” said Tanenbaum. “There are over 60 game studios in the area, and many of our professional participants come to be inspired by the creative environment and to work on the kinds of projects they might not get to make in their day jobs.”
Each year an original theme is revealed for jammers to use when developing their games. This year’s theme was simply “waves.”
Annakaisa Kultima, a GGJ regional organizer from Finland and a member of the committee that considered dozens of candidates before deciding on this year’s theme, spoke about its diverse possibilities for game creators: “We were trying to find a theme that would be inspiring on many levels of game creation. This theme can be used on all levels of game development: code, audio, graphics, gameplay as well as a thematic aspect of a game.”
Global Game Jam was originally a project developed under the International Game Developers Association between 2009-2012. In 2013, the event became independently managed by international nonprofit Global Game Jam Inc., which has “a mission to foster game design and game education through innovative events.”
More than 36,000 jammers in 702 sites across 95 countries created over 7,000 games this year, making this year’s GGJ the biggest game jam in history. Tanenbaum said she was proud to make UCI a part of this global event. She added, “I’m very happy with how things went this year!”
Photos and video from the event can be found online here.


— Katherine Li Smith

Global Game Jam connects UCI with OC's game design community
< Previous
 Data Scientist ranked top U.S. job by Glassdoor

            
Next >
 van der Hoek's new Software Design Decoded book provides practical advice for software designers

            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











