https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1274



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



January 16,  2018


Informatics Professors Promote Inclusiveness

Two Informatics professors have each received an Inclusive Excellence Spirit Award for their work in promoting equity, diversity and inclusion at UCI. Assistant Professor Bonnie Ruberg, along with Ph.D. student Amanda Cullen, received the award to help diversify esports, while Assistant Professor Aaron Trammell, along with graduate student Sarita Rosenstock, undergraduate student Grace Wood, and Library Event Coordinator Daniel Gilchrist, received the award for efforts to promote feminism and the politics of inclusion. UCI’s Office of Inclusive Excellence offers the awards, which include funding for related campus activities.
Diversifying the Face of Esports
Ruberg and Cullen applied for the award to support their efforts to better diversify livestreaming at the Esports Arena. In the application, Ruberg argues that livestreamers are the “faces of video games” at UCI, so she and Cullen hope to “promote a broader culture of diversity around video games” by developing “resources for women, LGBTQ folks and people of color who livestream.” They plan to study factors contributing to the lack of diversity in livestreaming at the Esports Arena and, based on the study’s findings, organize events that promote inclusivity in livestreaming.
Ruberg concludes the award application by saying that “with the help of the Office of Inclusive Excellence and the Inclusive Excellence Spirit Award, we have the opportunity to enact real and immediate change as the presence of competitive gaming at our institution grows.”
Promoting Intersectional Feminism
Funding from the second award will cover the speaking fee to bring Samhita Mukhopadhyay to a media-sharing event being held Thursday, Jan. 18, at 5:30 p.m. in the Student Center. The event is aimed at exposing the UCI student body to inspirational feminist media curated by the leaders of the Feminist Illuminati group here on campus. The group’s leaders, Rosenstock and Wood, worked with Trammell to apply for the award. Trammell notes, “As their faculty advisor, I saw the opportunity to help them fund an awesome event. I view supporting community outreach as a necessary part of my feminist research and practice.”
Rosenstock and Wood have been working with the UCI Langson Library to develop an exhibit focused on intersectional feminism, which they define as “an emancipatory network of ideas, people, and movements aimed at dismantling intersecting oppressive systems of gender, class, race, sexuality, nationality, ability, religion, and privilege more broadly.” Two of Mukhopadhyay’s works are included in the exhibit — Outdated and Nasty Women: Feminism, Resistance, and Revolution in Trump’s America — and Mukhopadhyay will help promote the exhibit by speaking about how print and online media can engage young people in feminist activism. The goal is to encourage students to support and join the Feminist Illuminati, which is “devoted to sustaining UC Irvine’s reputation as a diverse campus by being an outspoken and visible voice for feminism and the politics of inclusion on campus.”
— Shani Murray

Informatics Professors Promote Inclusiveness
< Previous
 ICS Professors Presenting at AICRE Events for Martin Luther King Jr. Weekend
            
Next >
 Levorato Collaborates on $3.7 Million Grant for Electricity Distribution Cybersecurity
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











