http://cradl.ics.uci.edu/?page_id=108





Matthew Bietz, Assistant Project Scientist | CRADL Lab




























Home
News
People
Projects
Publications
 













Matthew Bietz, Assistant Project Scientist


 Full profile






Matthew Bietz, Assistant Project Scientist
 Projects: VOSS trust project, Virtual Worlds & EUD
 Website
 Research areas: Cyberinfrastructure & e-Science, Collaboration in distributed groups, Relational practice and mediated communication


 
 My research advances understanding of the design and use of collaboration technologies in distributed knowledge work. I have focused on two overarching (and frequently overlapping) themes:
1) the role of knowledge representations and digital artifacts in supporting collaboration, and
2) relational communication in distributed groups. I have pursued the first theme primarily in the realm of information and communication technologies (ICTs) for science, where I have studied sociotechnical aspects of data, databases, and data sharing systems in HIV/AIDS research, genomics, and oceanography.
In the second theme, I investigate how distributed groups can build and maintain high-quality relationships given the constraints of distance and the affordances of communication technologies. My research builds on sociotechnical theories that illuminate the complex interplay of social and technological phenomena. Many of my recent studies have involved qualitative studies of the role of information technologies in everyday work. In these studies I rely on observation, interviews, and critical analysis of artifacts, drawing heavily on ethnographic and grounded theory approaches. I have also conducted quantitative studies, including experimental studies for my dissertation research.


















News


SuCSES is coming!


Site Tools

Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.org

 


CRADL receives funding from the National Science Foundation under grants 0943262, 0808783, and 1111446.
 
Department of Informatics | Donald Bren School of Information and Computer SciencesBren Hall 5042 | University of California, Irvine | Irvine, CA 92697-3440cradl_info@ics.uci.edu
 
Powered by WordPress | Theme: Yoko by Elmastudio | Header image: E. Howe
Top




