http://www.ics.uci.edu/~taylor





Richard Taylor






 Richard Taylor 


 


Chancellor's Professor Emeritus,  Information and Computer
        Sciences
Director Emeritus of the Institute for Software Research (ISR)
 Research Area:  Software
            Engineering  
 EMail:  taylor 'at sign goes here' uci 'dot goes here' edu	
 Mailing Address:
            
    Information and Computer Sciences
    University of California, Irvine
    Irvine, California 92697-3440
            



Google Scholar Profile 


      Handbook of Software Engineering
      
          Provides an in-depth survey of the state-of-the-art in software engineering, covering both foundational and emerging areas        
          Available from Springer.        
          (c) 2019        




 Two now not-so-recent awards:

	2017 University of Colorado, Boulder Distinguished Engineering Alumnus, with two "contrasting view" photos.
 2017 ACM SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award (with Roy Fielding)


The Taylor/Medvidovic/Dashofy textbook/reference on software architecture
  is available:

Software Architecture: Foundations, Theory, and Practice at Wiley.com
Software Architecture: Foundations, Theory, and Practice at Amazon.com
Software Architecture: Foundations, Theory, and Practice at Barnes and Noble

Visit the book's website for
  discussions and additional resources.
 
Last update: 
  March 11, 2022




Biography | Institute for Software Research 
    | Design | Research Projects | 
    Graduate Students and Ph.D. Graduates | Classes 
  | More Important Stuff | Publications




 Biography 

Richard N. Taylor is a Professor Emeritus of Information
     and Computer Sciences at the University
     of  California at Irvine. He received the Ph.D. degree in Computer
      Science from the University of Colorado at Boulder in 1980. His research
       interests are centered on design and software architectures, especially
      event-based and 
  peer-to-peer systems and the way they scale across organizational boundaries.
       Professor Taylor was the Director of the Institute
        for Software Research from 1999 through 2017, which is dedicated to fostering innovative
        basic  and applied research in software and information technologies
        through partnerships 
  with industry and government. He has served as chairman of ACM's Special Interest
         Group on Software Engineering, SIGSOFT,
          chairman of the steering committee for the International
           Conference on Software Engineering, and was general chair of the
           1999 International  Joint Conference on Work Activities, Coordination,
           and Collaboration and the 2004
           International Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering.
           He was  the General Chair for the 2011
           International Conference on Software Engineering,  held in Honolulu, Hawaii, May 2011.
Taylor was a 1985 recipient of a Presidential
             Young Investigator Award and in 1998 was recognized as an ACM
               Fellow. In 2005 he was awarded the ACM
               SIGSOFT Distinguished Service Award. In May 2008 he received
               ICSE's "Most
               Influential Paper Award", along with 
               co-authors Peyman Oreizy and Nenad Medvidovic, for "Architecture-based
               runtime software evolution" from ICSE 1998. In May, 2009
               he was recognized with the 2009 ACM
               SIGSOFT Outstanding Research Award. In February 2010 he was
               designated a University of California, Irvine Chancellor's
               Professor. In 2012 he received the Dean's Award for Excellence in Research, and in 2017 was granted  a Distinguished Engineering Alumni Award by the University of Colorado, Boulder.
 A PDF version of my September 2020 resume. 


Software Engineering
 Archival Events of Note

Keynote talk at ESEC/FSE 2009 (Amsterdam), for the 2009 ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding
    Research Award (slides 13.7Mb)


It has been 10 years!  2011 International Conference on Software Engineering: ICSE '11 







 
 Institute for Software Research (ISR) 


Established in July 1999, the University of California's Institute for Software 
  Research (ISR) is dedicated to


 fostering innovative basic and applied research in software and information 
    technologies; 
working with established companies, startups, government agencies, and standards 
    bodies to develop and transition the technologies to widespread and practical 
    application; 
educating the next generation of software researchers and practitioners 
    in advanced software technologies; 
supporting the public service mission of the University of California in 
    developing the economic basis of the State of California. 


The Institute's activities are focused on: 


Direct support of research projects, including funding personnel 
Research support services (administrative services)
Conference and seminar services 
Technology transition

The Institute extends beyond the boundaries of UC Irvine and includes faculty
from a variety of institutions. The Institute's web site details the faculty, staff, and students involved, the current projects, 
events, and news. 


 Research 

My research is focused on design — the issues, techniques, and agents 
  involved in creating and evolving software artifacts and processes. Specific 
  emphases include: 


software architecture: 
    means for designing, organizing, and describing distributed and decentralized 
    applications.
architecture-based 
    software development environments: tools to support the conceptual approach, 
    ranging from design-time tools to implementation to run-time dynamic adaptation.


The foundational work on architectures has centered on means for describing
 architectures in various styles and development of new architectural styles
  (notably the "C2" components-and-connectors
   style and, with Roy Fielding, the REST
    style for Internet applications such as the WWW). 

The environment and tools work has emphases on environment architectures (see 
  the ArchStudio site 
  for details), an extensible software
   architecture description language and supporting toolkit (see the
    xADL web site for the details and the download), and architecture-driven
     dynamic adaptation of applications. Virtually all of this work utilizes
      event-based approaches. A variety of publications in this area can be found
      at http://www.isr.uci.edu/architecture/publications.html.
Sample Publications (See full list): 

Richard N. Taylor, Nenad Medvidovic, Kenneth M. Anderson, E. James Whitehead,
    Jr., Jason E. Robbins, Kari A. Nies, Peyman Oreizy, and Deborah L. Dubrow.
    A component and message-based architectural style for GUI software. IEEE
  Transactions on Software Engineering, 22, 6, pp. 390-406 (June, 1996.) 
Roy Fielding, E. James Whitehead, Jr., Kenneth Anderson, Peyman Oreizy,
      Gregory Bolcer, and Richard Taylor. Web-based Development of Complex
      Information Products. Communications of the ACM, 41,8, pp. 84-92. (August
      1998.)
Nenad Medvidovic and Richard N. Taylor. A Classification and Comparison
      Framework for Software Architecture Description Languages. IEEE
    Transactions on Software Engineering, Vol. 26, No. 1, pp. 70-93 (January 2000).
Peyman Oreizy, Michael M. Gorlick, Richard N. Taylor, Dennis M. Heimbigner,
    Gregory F. Johnson, Nenad Medvidovic, Alex Quilici, David S. Rosenblum,
    Alexander L. Wolf. An Architecture-Based Approach to Self-Adaptive Software.
    IEEE Intelligent Systems,14, 3, pp. 54–62 (May/June 1999).
Kenneth M. Anderson, Richard N. Taylor, E. James Whitehead, Jr. Chimera:
    Hypermedia for Heterogeneous Environments. ACM Transactions
  on Office Information Systems, 18, 3, pp. 211-245 (July, 2000).
Roy Fielding and Richard N. Taylor. Principled design of the Modern Web
      Architecture. ACM Transactions on Internet Technology,
      2, 2, pp. 115-150
      (May 2002).
 Eric M. Dashofy, André van der Hoek, Richard N. Taylor. An Infrastructure
    for the Rapid Development of XML-based Architecture Description Languages.
    Proceedings of the 2002 International Conference on Software Engineering
  (ICSE 2002), Orlando, May 22-24, 2002. 
Rohit Khare and Richard N. Taylor. “Extending the Representational
    State Transfer (REST) Architectural Style for Decentralized Systems.” Proceedings
    of the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), May, 2004,
  Edinburgh, Scotland.
Justin R. Erenkrantz, Michael Gorlick, Girish Suryanarayana, Richard N.
    Taylor. From representations to computations: the evolution of web architectures.
    Proceedings of the 6th joint meeting of the European Software Engineering
    Conference and the 14th ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on Foundations of Software
  Engineering (ESEC/FSE 07), September 03 - 07, 2007, Pages: 255 - 264.
Georgas, J. C. and Taylor, R. N. 2008. Policy-based self-adaptive architectures:
    a feasibility study in the robotics domain. In Proceedings of the 2008 international
    Workshop on Software Engineering For Adaptive and Self-Managing Systems (Leipzig,
  Germany, May 12 - 13, 2008). SEAMS '08. ACM, New York, NY, 105-112


Design
(Not just software!)
The Proposal
     for a School of Design at the University of California, Irvine (dated
     November  2002; PDF format; 188 pages; 8.5M) recommended establishment of
     a research-based  school having an interdisciplinary approach to design
     and a comprehensive array  of degree programs at the bachelor's, master's,
     and doctoral levels.  The School of Design proposal was transmitted
  to the Irvine Division of the Academic Senate on January 13, 2003. The proposal
     is no longer under active consideration, but remains a vision document for
     the design research community.
Software Design 
Andre van der Hoek and I wrote an extended paper on the future
  of software design and architecture, as part of FOSE
  2007: Future of Software Engineering.

 Graduate Students and Ph.D. Graduates 

 Ph.D. Graduates 

I've had the privilege of supervising the following thirty Ph.D. graduates. 


 1986 
 Stephen Clarke-Willson 
VP of Technology, NCSOFT


 1988    
  Ray Klefstad  
 Professor of Teaching (LSoE), Information and Computer Science, UC 
      Irvine    


 1989    
  Michal Young  
 Associate Professor, Computer Science, University
      of Oregon    


 1992    
 M. Gregory James    
 Lead Product Manager, American Express


 1993    
  David Levine  
 Lead Technologist, Booz Allen Hamilton, Boston, MA. 


 1993    
 Dennis Troup    
  Emerging Technologies Consultants, Inc. 


 1994    
 Patrick Young 
 Lecturer,  Computer Science Department, 
      Stanford University    


 1996    
 Holly Hildreth    
Senior Software Systems Engineer , Blue Origin


 1996    
 John Self    
Senior Principal Engineer (Retired), BAE Systems,  San Diego    


 1997    
  Kenneth Mark Anderson  
  Professor and Department Chair, Computer Science , University of 	
    Colorado, Boulder    


 1998    
 Gregory Alan Bolcer 
 Chief Data Officer (CDO)  , Bitvore Corporation


 1999    
  Neno Medvidovic  

 Professor and Associate Chair, Computer Science Department, University of Southern
         California. Director Emeritus, Center for
    Systems and Software Engineering. 


2000    
Peyman Oreizy 
Senior Manager , Software Engineering at Walmart


2000    
E. James Whitehead 
Professor and past Chair, Department of Computer Science, University
       of California, Santa Cruz    


2000    
Roy Thomas Fielding 
Senior Principal Scientist at Adobe Systems
      Director at The Apache Software Foundation
    Co-founder and member of the Apache HTTP Server Project


2002    
Robb Klashner 
Assistant Professor, New Jersey Institute of Technology    


2003    
Rohit Khare 
 Founder at Ångströ.com; now Product Manager, 
      Google, Inc.


2004    
Peter Kammer 
Senior Software Engineer, Google, Inc. 


2006
Jie Ren
Senior Staff Software Engineer, Google, Inc.


2007
Girish Suryanarayana
Director of Software Engineering, Siemens Digital Industries Software, India. 


2007
Eric Dashofy
Deputy CIO and General Manager, The
          Aerospace Corporation  


2008
John Georgas
 Professor and  Vice Provost for Academic Operations; School of Informatics, Computing, and Cyber Systems, Northern
    Arizona University


2009
Hazel Asuncion
Associate Professor, Computing and Software Systems, University of Washington, Bothell


2009
Justin Erenkrantz
Senior Vice President, Software Engineering at MLB Advanced Media, L.P.
    Former President, The Apache Software Foundation


2010
Art Hitomi
CEO and Co-Founder at Numecent 


2011
Scott Hendrickson
Software Engineer, Google, Inc.


2012
Yongjie Zheng
Associate Professor, California State University, San Marcos


2013
Leyna Cotran
Systems Engineering Manager, Waymo


2014
Alegria Baquero
Senior Software Engineer, ZocDoc


2016
Michael Gorlick
The Aerospace Corporation


 


 The Things that Really Matter 

 My Family!   
    This picture  is of my wife and myself halfway up the Aiguille du Midi, 
    near Chamonix.
  
 Music: anything baroque, sacred choral music, Rondo
     Veneziano. 
  
 The mezzotints of John Martin. See, for example,  
    Adam and Eve,The Morning Hymn . 
  
 Most everything French, but especially food and  
    St. Barts .  Cannes  is 
    wonderful, except during the cheesy film festival...
  



References or pointers on these pages to non-University entities do not represent endorsement
by the Regents of the University of California.

But you knew that already....

School of Information and Computer Sciences, 

University of California, Irvine CA 92697-3440


Copyright © 1996-2022



