https://www.cs.uci.edu/qualcomm-funds-research-projects-in-computer-vision-and-machine-learning




Qualcomm Funds Research Projects in Computer Vision and Machine Learning 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Qualcomm Funds Research Projects in Computer Vision and Machine Learning
September 23, 2019 
Qualcomm Inc. has provided gift funding to Computer Science Professors Charless Fowlkes, Stephan Mandt and Padhraic Smyth in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS). This funding will support Ph.D. students involved in basic research projects across the three groups on topics related to the development of new theories and algorithms in the areas of computer vision and machine learning. The initial award is in the amount of $255,000, with Professors Fowlkes and Mandt each receiving $90,000, and Professor Smyth receiving $75,000 through a 2019 Qualcomm Faculty Award.

“Collaborating with a company like Qualcomm provides faculty and Ph.D. students with excellent opportunities to see how our research ideas in the lab can be scaled up and used in a wide variety of real-world applications in areas like mobile computing, time-series forecasting, distributed machine learning and real-time computer vision,” says Smyth. “The demands imposed by these applications often generate very interesting and challenging basic research questions that provide great material for Ph.D. thesis research.”
The funded projects will involve collaborations with Qualcomm’s rapidly expanding research and development work in artificial intelligence, with a particular focus on Qualcomm AI/ML research labs in San Diego and Amsterdam.
­­— Shani Murray
« Professor Chen’s Talk on Self-Driving Security Wins HotSec AwardsScience 101: “AI solves a Rubik’s cube without human help” (Pierre Baldi research mentioned) »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




