https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-ml-repository-highlights-four-impactful-projects-at-2022-ml-hackathon




UCI ML Repository Highlights Four Impactful Projects at 2022 ML Hackathon 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI ML Repository Highlights Four Impactful Projects at 2022 ML Hackathon
July 6, 2022 
The UCI Machine Learning (ML) Repository hosted the 2022 Machine Learning Hackathon from May 18 to May 29. Throughout the hackathon, participants engaged with members of the UCI ML Repository and its datasets to build creative and meaningful projects. On June 3, hackathon organizers held an awards ceremony to review project submissions and recognize four winning hacks.

Junior computer science major Angel Vilchis 
Overall Best: Personalizing Recommendations Without User ActivityThe UCI ML Repository is home to over 600 datasets. While there are plenty of ways to filter for datasets, how about using ML to do the work for you? Angel Vilchis, a junior computer science major specializing in intelligent systems, built a model that recommends datasets related to a select dataset. Vilchis says the model’s recommendations are highly accurate, and it benefits all users browsing the UCI ML Repository. 
You first select a dataset in the UCI ML Repository you’re interested in. Then, you specify how many related datasets you would like to be recommended. Datasets are recommended based on how similar they are to the selected dataset based on three measures: characteristics, context and popularity. You can also customize the model to prefer one similarity measure over the other. 
Computer Science Professor Sameer Singh with the SEW.NLP team.
Overall Runner Up: SEW.NLP – NLP for Dataset ParsingKnowing the context surrounding data that is collected is important and can help determine whether or not it’s suitable for your needs. To better understand datasets, the SEW.NLP team created a question-answering NLP model. They used SciBert and XLNet models and the Qasper dataset to extract information from scientific papers about datasets in the UCI ML Repository.
SEW.NLP was created by:
Edoardo Botta – senior economics and computer science major, Università BocconiWilliam Han – senior psychological science major, UCISanay Talsania – senior business information management major, UCI
Most Creative: UnlimitedMonsterLearning – Automatic StatisticianWhat does it mean when a dataset is “good”? UnlimitedMonsterLearning strives to answer that question and address related concerns and ethics about the quality of datasets. The team evaluated the quality of datasets using statistical parameters and analyzed the pattern of dataset popularity with respect to a variety of statistical qualities. 
Yiqin Chen and Hao Li from UnlimitedMonsterLearning.
UnlimitedMonsterLearning was created by: 
Yiqin Chen – junior business information management and data science major, UCIHao Li – junior mathematics major and statistics minor, UCI
The four students who created Team Untitled.
Most Impactful:  Team Untitled – SearchThe goal of Team Untitled is to improve and refine the process of searching for information in datasets using NLP. Team Untitled combined latent dirichlet allocation and latent semantic analysis modeling techniques to find the most relevant words in datasets. This helps expand search queries and find the most relevant datasets. 
Team Untitled was created by: 
John Lorenzini – freshman computer science major, UCIMeera Jagota – freshman computer science major, UCIJohn Daniel Norombaba – freshman software engineering major, UCINeel Ramesh – freshman computer science and engineering major, UCI
— Karen Phan
« Faculty and Staff Honored at Annual ICS Awards CelebrationMaster of Computer Science Students Pitch Products and Network at Spring 2022 Showcase »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




