https://www.stat.uci.edu/uci-mind-alzheimers-disease-clinical-trials-and-covid-19-with-dr-daniel-gillen




UCI Mind: “Alzheimer’s Disease, Clinical Trials, And COVID-19 With Dr. Daniel Gillen” 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
UCI Mind: “Alzheimer’s Disease, Clinical Trials, And COVID-19 With Dr. Daniel Gillen”
May 4, 2020 
This monthly series features short talks and Q&A with experts from the University of California, Irvine Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders (UCI MIND), 1 of 32 congressionally designated Alzheimer’s Disease Research Centers in the nation. Join UCI MIND on Facebook (@UCIrvineMIND) to learn about advances in research to improve Alzheimer’s disease diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.

Watch the video on YouTube.

« UCI Brain: “Researcher Spotlight: Dr. Babak Shahbaba”Michelle Nuño Selected to Participate in the 70th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







