http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ziv

Hadar Ziv




Hadar Ziv

Position: Ph.D. Researcher (Info. and Computer Science), Instructor (UCI Extension)
Area: Software Eng., OO Analysis/Design, Hypertext, Uncertainty,
Bayesian nets
Advisor:
Debra J. Richardson
Office: ICS2 259
Office Tel: +1(714)824-4047
Office Fax: +1(714)824-4056
E-mail: ziv@ics.uci.edu

My Ph.D. Dissertation 

I recently turned in my dissertation manuscript to the UCI library.

Here, I make available the following dissertation chapters:


Abstract


Introduction


Conclusion

Your feedback on form and content of these chapters is welcome!

Course Information 

I teach two courses for
UCI Extension,
one on object-oriented analysis and design,
the other on Windows NT/95 Programming using Visual C++ and MFC.

Textbooks and syllabus for my Object-Oriented Analysis and Design course
are likely to change soon, in anticipation of new books on the
latest offering of OO methodologies, including


The OPEN Consortium's OML
and
Rational's UML.

For Tysh, I enclose HTML versions of weeks 1 and 3 of my OOAD course,
Week 1,

and
Week3.

Research Projects

I develop a hypertext browser, called 
IVAN,
that affords better traceability of software systems by explicit
modeling of software uncertainties.

This work is done as part of the
Arcadia
research project at
UC Irvine.

Research Papers

Recently completed three papers on Bayesian-network modeling of
software engineering uncertainties.   

The first is submitted to ICSM'97 conference, and is titled

Constructing Bayesian-network models of software testing
and maintenance uncertainties, also in Adobe PDF in


The second is submitted to
International
Workshop on Incorporating Hypertext Functionality into Software
Systems, to be held in conjunction with the conference on
Hypertext'97.
This paper is available here in postscript form, under the title

Adding Uncertainty to Hypertext Models of Software Systems.

The second paper is submitted to
ESEC/FSE 97
conference.  The paper is available in postscript form,
under the title

"Bayesian-network Confirmation of Software Testing Uncertainties."

The same paper in Adobe PDF format (for Acrobat 3.0) is in

"Bayesian-network Confirmation of Software Testing Uncertainties."

Please treat all papers as draft submissions, since notification
of acceptance is not due until April 1997.

A previous incarnation of this paper was submitted to
ICSE 97.
The paper in its original, 10-point font, two column style
as required by ICSE, is entitled


"The Uncertainty Principle in Software Engineering."

Links to even earlier versions of this paper can also be found in the
collection of papers on

Workflow and Process
Automation.

Professional Interests

I know a few things about software engineering, software testing,
process modeling, and object-oriented analysis and design.
I am also interested in Bayesian networks and uncertainty modeling,
particularly as they apply to software development.

Object-Oriented Techniques

I am familiar with leading methods for OO analysis and design,
including the latest work on the Unified
Modeling Language (UML) and the OPEN/MOSES effort.

I am in fact a member of the

OPEN Consortium.

A good source of information on OO CASE Tools on the Web
can be found

Here.

In addition,
a collection of more than 2000 links about object-orientation
is available at these U.S. mirror sites:


Chicago, Illinois
and

Provo, Utah.

Bayesian Networks

I am interested in Bayesian networks.  There are a few quality pages
on this topic, including:

AFIT AI Laboratory

Lonnie Chrisman's Roadmap to Bayesian Research

You can find a Bayesian Network Editor, implemented in Java, in the
Bayesian Editor page

and the accompanying implementation of Bayesian updating,
courtesy of Fabio Cozman of CMU, at

JavaBayes.

Other Interests
Besides the aforementioned professional interests, I like to
play soccer and tennis, hike, jog, swim, and play rollerhockey.
My favorite rollerhockey arena is the
Irvine Hockey Club.

My favorite sport, however, is soccer.
A good place to look for the latest soccer information is the
ESPN Sports Zone Soccer
web page.
For additional sports links, check with my friend
Neno.

To learn more about me, take a look at my
Resume.

Getting started with HTML

UCI's Office of Academic Computing has put together
some pointers on

how to learn HTML.





Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine
CA 92697-3425

Last modified: 26 February 1997

