https://www.cs.uci.edu/ardalan-amiri-sanis-nsf-grant-aims-to-secure-mobile-devices




Ardalan Amiri Sani’s NSF Grant Aims to Secure Mobile Devices 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Ardalan Amiri Sani’s NSF Grant Aims to Secure Mobile Devices
March 25, 2019 

Assistant Professor of Computer Science Ardalan Amiri Sani recently received a National Science Foundation (NSF) CAREER award for his research on “Securing Mobile Devices by Hardening their System Software” (see the NSF award page here.) The NSF CAREER program supports early career-development activities of those who are integrating research and education. As outlined in the award abstract, Amiri Sani’s project aims to “[enhance] the security of mobile devices [such as smartphones, tablets, and wearables]” and at the same time “train students in systems software programming through outreach and tutorial activities.”

“Unfortunately, there are a large number of vulnerabilities in the operating systems of mobile devices, such as Android, and these vulnerabilities can be exploited by malicious applications to compromise the device,” says Amiri Sani. To address this concern, this awarded project will use three approaches. First, it will develop a security monitor to provide security and privacy guarantees for a mobile device despite a compromised operating system. Second, it will design novel tools to identify and fix mobile operating system vulnerabilities. Finally, it will create a vetting layer to safeguard the operating system interface against malicious applications.
“Mobile devices are the primary personal computers of many users all around the world,” notes Amiri Sani. “As a result, making them more secure will have tremendous benefits for everyone.”
— Shani Murray
« AI@UCI: Exploring the World of Artificial IntelligenceProfessor Irani’s Behind-the-Scenes Support of Coding Courses for Girls »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




