https://www.stat.uci.edu




Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences – Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences









































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting








Research










Faculty Directory










M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics










UCI Launches New Professional Program: Master of Data Science










 











For more than 20 years, UCI’s Department of Statistics has continued to grow as a leader in creating statistical methodology for use in data science applications. With an emphasis on research in statistical theory and interdisciplinary collaborations, the department has grown over the years to house the Center for Statistical Consulting, providing statistical expertise through collaborative relationships with researchers across the campus and community, and was one of the first in the world to offer an undergraduate degree in data science. Explore the statistics website to learn more about our accomplishments and how you can become part of our community.
 
Job OpportunitiesFor a listing of current academic positions open in the Statistics Department, visit the Academic Recruitment website.
 
















Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy


















