https://www.cs.uci.edu/ics-graduate-programs-in-statistics-and-computer-science-among-top-20-for-public-universities




ICS Graduate Programs in Statistics and Computer Science Among Top 20 for Public Universities 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


ICS Graduate Programs in Statistics and Computer Science Among Top 20 for Public Universities
April 1, 2022 

On March 29, 2022, U.S. News & World Report released its annual graduate school rankings, and UCI had 11 programs place in the top 20 for public universities. Among those were the computer science and statistics graduate programs in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS).

Of the 202 programs ranked for computer science, UCI was 14th for public universities and 28th overall.
“According to US News’ latest edition of Best Graduate Schools, we continue to climb and rank among the best in the nation,” says Tony Givargis, professor and chair of the Department of Computer Science. “It is exciting to be part of a department that is dedicated to exceptional research and high-quality education in a profoundly impactful academic discipline.”
Of the 101 programs ranked for statistics, UCI was 18th for public universities and 27th overall — up from 50th in 2018.
“We are very excited about our improved ranking,” says Dan Gillen, professor and chair of the Department of Statistics. “This is a reflection of our impressive students and faculty and the world-class research reputation that they have earned. We look forward to continued improvement in the coming years.”
UCI is one of the few universities in the country to house its computer science and statistics programs in a school dedicated to information and computer sciences, giving students a wide variety of multidisciplinary opportunities and broad coverage of both fields.
“UCI has established itself as a world-class public research university in a wide range of graduate disciplines,” said Gillian Hayes, vice provost for graduate education and dean of the Graduate Division. “These rankings confirm that our campus offers challenging and intellectually rich opportunities for students of all backgrounds to achieve academic and professional excellence.”
— Shani Murray
« Culture of Collaboration Leads to Cutting-Edge Work in AIMachine Learning Street Talk Podcast: “NLP Benchmarks & ML DevOps Interoperability With Yasaman Razeghi and Prof. Sameer Singh” »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




