https://www.stat.uci.edu/stephan-mandt-named-mercator-fellow




Stephan Mandt Named Mercator Fellow 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Stephan Mandt Named Mercator Fellow
July 29, 2022 
The German National Science Foundation (DFG) has awarded Stephan Mandt, an associate professor of computer science and statistics in UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), its prestigious Mercator Fellowship. The fellowship recognizes international scholars and seeks to integrate them into large-scale research efforts at German universities to foster the international exchange of knowledge. As a Mercator Fellow, Mandt will be integrated into a multimillion dollar initiative at the University of Kaiserslautern, focused on advancing machine learning methodology in chemical engineering.

Professor Mandt’s team has actively promoted machine learning in the physical sciences. In particular, the group recently published a sequence of papers in Chemical Science, the Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters and Chemical Communications, showing how machine learning methods could accurately predict thermodynamic properties of fluid mixtures in a fully data-driven way. Fabian Jirasek, a former UCI postdoc and lead author of these projects, is now an assistant professor at the Technical University of Kaiserslautern.
The team working on the initiative to advance machine learning for chemical engineering: (from left) Prof. Fabian Jirasek, Prof. Stephan Mandt, Prof. Sophie Fellenz and Prof. Marius Kloft.
“I’m particularly excited about the opportunity to collaborate with these outstanding experts,” says Mandt, “and to deepen existing collaborations.”
Mandt is the second ICS faculty member to be named a Mercator Fellow. Alfred Kobsa received the fellowship in 2016.
— Shani Murray

« Daniel Gillen Named Chancellor’s ProfessorUCI in Top 10 on Fortune’s List of Best Master’s in Data Science Programs »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







