https://www.cs.uci.edu/multidepartmental-collaboration-on-detecting-code-clones-leads-to-distinguished-paper-award




Multidepartmental Collaboration on Detecting Code Clones Leads to Distinguished Paper Award 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Multidepartmental Collaboration on Detecting Code Clones Leads to Distinguished Paper Award
November 20, 2018 Faculty and graduate students representing all three departments of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) received a Distinguished Paper Award at the 26th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE 18). At the internationally renowned forum for software engineering researchers, practitioners and educators, software engineering Ph.D. students Vaibhav Saini and Farima Farmahinifarahani, along with their adviser, Informatics Professor Crista Lopes, and statistics Ph.D. student Yadong Lu and his advisor, Distinguished Professor of Computer Science Pierre Baldi, were recognized for their paper, “Oreo: Detection of Clones in the Twilight Zone.”

Distinguished Paper Award recipients: (from left, bottom) Crista Lopes, Vaibhav Saini and Farima Farmahinifarahani; (from left, top) Yadong Lu and Pierre Baldi.
“The Twilight Zone is where the distinction between clones and non-clones gets increasingly harder to make, even by human judges,” explains Lopes. Researchers have categorized source code clones into four different types, ranging from textual (Type 1) to semantic (Type 4), and the “Twilight Zone” referenced in the paper resides between Types 3 and 4. The Oreo approach, named by Saini because the tool’s architecture resembles an Oreo cookie, combines machine learning, information retrieval and software metrics to detect not only Type-1, -2 and -3 clones but also clones in this Twilight Zone.
“The applications of code clone detection are varied and important,” says Lopes. Applications include detecting license violations and software theft as well as optimizing code. “With so much open source software,” she continues, “it’s easy for companies to get into trouble when software developers simply copy and paste files with problematic licenses into their code base.” According to Saini, who recently accepted a job offer from Microsoft and will start after defending his thesis this fall, the team plans to further improve Oreo to “capture even more clones with better precision.”
“Working on Oreo was a great experience,” says Saini. “We were thrilled to know that after many sleepless nights, liters of coffee and packets of Oreos, our work is getting recognized.”
Their work builds on previous collaborations aimed at developing and applying machine learning approaches to software problems. “Clone detection is only one such problem; there are many more,” says Baldi. “In the long run, most programming could be done just by telling machines what to do.”
— Shani Murray
« UCI Feels Like Home for Navy Veteran and Computer Science Major Timothy TomasProfessor Franz Honored with Humboldt Research Award »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




