https://www.cs.uci.edu/stephan-mandt-named-mercator-fellow




Stephan Mandt Named Mercator Fellow 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Stephan Mandt Named Mercator Fellow
July 29, 2022 
The German National Science Foundation (DFG) has awarded Stephan Mandt, an associate professor of computer science and statistics in UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), its prestigious Mercator Fellowship. The fellowship recognizes international scholars and seeks to integrate them into large-scale research efforts at German universities to foster the international exchange of knowledge. As a Mercator Fellow, Mandt will be integrated into a multimillion dollar initiative at the University of Kaiserslautern, focused on advancing machine learning methodology in chemical engineering.

Professor Mandt’s team has actively promoted machine learning in the physical sciences. In particular, the group recently published a sequence of papers in Chemical Science, the Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters and Chemical Communications, showing how machine learning methods could accurately predict thermodynamic properties of fluid mixtures in a fully data-driven way. Fabian Jirasek, a former UCI postdoc and lead author of these projects, is now an assistant professor at the Technical University of Kaiserslautern.
The team working on the initiative to advance machine learning for chemical engineering: (from left) Prof. Fabian Jirasek, Prof. Stephan Mandt, Prof. Sophie Fellenz and Prof. Marius Kloft.
“I’m particularly excited about the opportunity to collaborate with these outstanding experts,” says Mandt, “and to deepen existing collaborations.”
Mandt is the second ICS faculty member to be named a Mercator Fellow. Alfred Kobsa received the fellowship in 2016.
— Shani Murray
« Conference Experience Confirms Competitive Edge of ICS Capstone ProgramCutting-Edge Work in Topological Network Alignment by Wayne Hayes and Students »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




