http://www.ics.uci.edu/Arcadia/C2/c2.html



Chiron-2




About Chiron-2
The Chiron-2 architectural style (often referred to as C2)
is designed to support the particular needs of applications 
that have a graphical user interface aspect, but it has the 
potential for supporting other types of applications as well.



 Component-based style
 Software components may 
be written in different programming languages. 
They can more readily be reused and/or substituted 
with other components in an architecture.

 Scalability 
 Components may be of various granularity. 
They may be running in a distributed, heterogeneous 
environment. There is no assumption of 
shared address space among components and each 
component may have its own thread(s) of control

 Flexibility 
 Multiple users may be interacting with the 
system. Multiple dialogs may be active and 
described in different formalisms. Multiple tool
kits and media types may be employed. Architec
tures may be changed dynamically. A conceptual 
architecture is distinct from an implementation 
architecture; multiple implementation architectures 
may realize the same conceptual architecture.


Chiron-2 composition rules
There are two types 
of building blocks in Chiron-2: components and 
connectors, i.e., message routing devices. A Chiron-2 
architecture can informally be described as a network 
of concurrent components linked together by connectors. 
Components and connectors both have a defined 
top and bottom. They may be composed in the follow
ing manner:


 The top of a component may be connected to the 
bottom of a single connector. 

 The bottom of a component may be connected to 
the top of a single connector. 

 There is no bound on the number of components 
or connectors that may be attached to a single connector. 

 When two connectors are attached to each other, it 
must be from the bottom of one to the top of the other.


Chiron-2 Communication Rules 
All communication 
between Chiron-2 components is achieved 
solely by exchanging messages. Each component has 
a top and bottom domain. The top domain specifies 
the set of notifications to which a component 
responds, and the set of requests it emits up an 
architecture. The bottom domain specifies the set of 
notifications that a component emits down an architecture 
and the set of requests to which it responds. Central to 
the architectural style is a principle of limited visibility 
or substrate independence: a component within the 
hierarchy can only be aware of components "above"
it, and is completely unaware of the components 
"beneath" it. 


Benefits of Chiron-2
It is a "natural" architectural 
style for user interface software, where application 
architecture is unconstrained by the user 
interface architecture. The style has a simple and 
understandable set of rules that support


 scalability,
 distributed, multi-user applications,
 flexibility and customizability,
 component substitutability, and
 efficiency by separating conceptual architectures from implementation architectures.



Chiron-2 Example Architectures
 KLAX Example 


Chiron-2 Papers

"A Component- and Message-Based Architectural Style for GUI
Software",
by Richard N. Taylor, Nenad Medvidovic, Kenneth M. Anderson,
E. James Whitehead Jr., Jason E. Robbins, Kari A. Nies, Peyman Oreizy, and Deborah L. Dubrow, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, June 1996.  A significant extension of the ICSE17 paper.


"A Component- and Message-Based Architectural Style for GUI
Software",
by Richard N. Taylor, Nenad Medvidovic, Kenneth M. Anderson,
E. James Whitehead Jr. and Jason E. Robbins,
in Proceedings of the Seventeenth International Conference
on Software Engineering (ICSE17), pages 295-304, Seattle WA, April 24-28, 1995.

"Using Object-Oriented Typing to Support Architectural Design in the C2 Style",
by Nenad Medvidovic, Peyman Oreizy, Jason E. Robbins, and Richard N. Taylor.
To appear in Proceedings of SIGSOFT'96: The Fourth Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (FSE4),
San Francisco, CA, October 16-18, 1996.

"Formal Modeling of Software Architectures at Multiple Levels of Abstraction", 
by Nenad Medvidovic, Richard N. Taylor, and E. James Whitehead, Jr.  Proceedings of the  California Software Symposium 1996, pages 28-40, Los Angeles, CA, April 17, 1996.

"Software Architecture Design from the Perspective of Human 
Cognitive Needs", by Jason E. Robbins and David F. Redmiles. Proceedings 
of the  California Software
Symposium 1996, pages 16-27, Los Angeles, CA, April 17, 1996. 


"Software Architecture: Foundation of a Software Component 
Marketplace",
by E. James Whitehead Jr, Jason E. Robbins, Nenad Medvidovic,
and  Richard N. Taylor.  In David Garlan, ed., Proceedings of the First 
International Workshop on Architectures for Software Systems, pages 276-282,
Seattle WA, April 24-25, 1995.

"Extending Design Environments to Software Architecture Design", by Jason
E. Robbins, David F. Redmiles, and David M. Hilbert. Submitted to 
Knowledge-Based Software Engineering 1996 (KBSE'96).



arcadia-chiron@ics.uci.edu

Arcadia Project at UCI

Department of Information and Computer Science,
University of California, Irvine, CA  92717-3425

Last modified: Sun Jul  3 03:44:25 1994

