https://www.cs.uci.edu/sangeetha-abdu-jyothi-attends-the-heidelberg-laureate-forum




Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi Attends the Heidelberg Laureate Forum 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi Attends the Heidelberg Laureate Forum
October 8, 2019 
Incoming faculty member Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi, a postdoc at VMware Research who will join the Department of Computer Science in July 2020, was selected to attend the Heidelberg Laureate Forum (HLF) last month as a young researcher. Each year, 200 early career researchers from across the globe are chosen — through a multi-step application and selection process — to attend the event and network with laureates of mathematics and computer science.


“I had the opportunity to meet and converse with pioneers in my field such as Vint Cerf (Turing Award 2004) and Leslie Lamport (Turing Award 2013),” says Jyothi, who has focused her research on computer networking and systems. In particular, she builds application-aware self-optimizing systems through automated resource management, leveraging learning and optimization techniques to achieve resource efficiency in large-scale networked systems.
Jyothi says the event featured several interesting talks, including the Turing lecture of Yoshua Bengio (Turing Award 2018). “Bengio gave a comprehensive overview of the history of deep learning and his future vision for artificial intelligence research.” She also highlighted the talk by ACM Prize in Computing winner, Shwetak Patel. “He stressed the importance of using computer science as a tool for social impact with a comprehensive overview of his work on mobile health monitoring.”
The event featured a “Hot Topic” session on climate change and a variety of workshops and social events as well. “I was heartened to see this forum giving due importance to critical societal problems such as climate change and the gender gap in STEM through panel discussions,” says Jyothi. “Overall, HLF was an inspiring event with enlightening talks and invaluable interactions with the Laureates and other young researchers.”
— Shani Murray
« Senior Spotlight: Taneisha Arora Pursues Her Passions, From Working in Industry to Running a BakeryICS Welcomes 8 New Faculty for 2019 »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




