https://www.ics.uci.edu/~iftekha/publication/a-case-study-of-motivations-for-corporate-contribution-to-foss





















A Case Study of Motivations for Corporate Contribution to FOSS | 






Toggle navigation










Home




Research Group




Research




Publications




Awards




Projects




Experience




CV and Resume




Service




Contact




Advice








A Case Study of Motivations for Corporate Contribution to FOSS

Iftekhar Ahmed, Darren Forrest, Carlos Jensen
      
    


































Abstract
Free/Open Source Software developers come from a myriad of different backgrounds, and are driven to contribute to projects for a variety of different reasons, including compensation from corporations or foundations. Motivation can have a dramatic impact on how and what contribution an individual makes, as well as how tenacious they are. These contributions may align with the needs of the developer, the community, the organization funding the developer, or all of the above. Understanding how corporate sponsorship affects the social dynamics and evolution of Free/Open Source code and community is critical to fostering healthy communities. We present a case study of corporations contributing to the Linux Kernel. We find that corporate contributors contribute more code, but are less likely to participate in non-coding activities. This knowledge will help project leaders to better understand the dynamics of sponsorship, and help to steer resources.




Type


            Conference proceedings
          










Publication
In Symposium on Visual Languages and Human-Centric Computing (VL/HCC), IEEE.









Date

          July, 2017
        









Links


  PDF













← An Empirical Examination of the Relationship Between Code Smells and Merge Conflicts
Towards understanding code readability and its impact on design quality. →







      © 2020 Iftekhar Ahmed · 

      Powered by the Academic
      theme for Hugo.

      




















