https://www.stat.uci.edu/uci-ml-repository-highlights-four-impactful-projects-at-2022-ml-hackathon




UCI ML Repository Highlights Four Impactful Projects at 2022 ML Hackathon 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
UCI ML Repository Highlights Four Impactful Projects at 2022 ML Hackathon
July 6, 2022 
The UCI Machine Learning (ML) Repository hosted the 2022 Machine Learning Hackathon from May 18 to May 29. Throughout the hackathon, participants engaged with members of the UCI ML Repository and its datasets to build creative and meaningful projects. On June 3, hackathon organizers held an awards ceremony to review project submissions and recognize four winning hacks.

Junior computer science major Angel Vilchis 
Overall Best: Personalizing Recommendations Without User ActivityThe UCI ML Repository is home to over 600 datasets. While there are plenty of ways to filter for datasets, how about using ML to do the work for you? Angel Vilchis, a junior computer science major specializing in intelligent systems, built a model that recommends datasets related to a select dataset. Vilchis says the model’s recommendations are highly accurate, and it benefits all users browsing the UCI ML Repository. 
You first select a dataset in the UCI ML Repository you’re interested in. Then, you specify how many related datasets you would like to be recommended. Datasets are recommended based on how similar they are to the selected dataset based on three measures: characteristics, context and popularity. You can also customize the model to prefer one similarity measure over the other. 
Computer Science Professor Sameer Singh with the SEW.NLP team.
Overall Runner Up: SEW.NLP – NLP for Dataset ParsingKnowing the context surrounding data that is collected is important and can help determine whether or not it’s suitable for your needs. To better understand datasets, the SEW.NLP team created a question-answering NLP model. They used SciBert and XLNet models and the Qasper dataset to extract information from scientific papers about datasets in the UCI ML Repository.
SEW.NLP was created by:
Edoardo Botta – senior economics and computer science major, Università BocconiWilliam Han – senior psychological science major, UCISanay Talsania – senior business information management major, UCI
Most Creative: UnlimitedMonsterLearning – Automatic StatisticianWhat does it mean when a dataset is “good”? UnlimitedMonsterLearning strives to answer that question and address related concerns and ethics about the quality of datasets. The team evaluated the quality of datasets using statistical parameters and analyzed the pattern of dataset popularity with respect to a variety of statistical qualities. 
Yiqin Chen and Hao Li from UnlimitedMonsterLearning.
UnlimitedMonsterLearning was created by: 
Yiqin Chen – junior business information management and data science major, UCIHao Li – junior mathematics major and statistics minor, UCI
The four students who created Team Untitled.
Most Impactful:  Team Untitled – SearchThe goal of Team Untitled is to improve and refine the process of searching for information in datasets using NLP. Team Untitled combined latent dirichlet allocation and latent semantic analysis modeling techniques to find the most relevant words in datasets. This helps expand search queries and find the most relevant datasets. 
Team Untitled was created by: 
John Lorenzini – freshman computer science major, UCIMeera Jagota – freshman computer science major, UCIJohn Daniel Norombaba – freshman software engineering major, UCINeel Ramesh – freshman computer science and engineering major, UCI
— Karen Phan

« Faculty and Staff Honored at Annual ICS Awards CelebrationConference Experience Confirms Competitive Edge of ICS Capstone Program »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







