https://www.stat.uci.edu/uci-news-national-institute-awards-20-million-in-renewed-funding-to-forensic-science-center




UCI News: “National institute awards $20 million in renewed funding to forensic science center” 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
UCI News: “National institute awards $20 million in renewed funding to forensic science center”
May 18, 2020 
The National Institute of Standards and Technology has awarded $20 million in renewed funding to the Center for Statistics and Applications in Forensic Evidence, an interdisciplinary group of more than 60 participants at the University of California, Irvine and five other U.S. institutions of higher education.

Since its initial funding by NIST in 2015, CSAFE has engaged researchers in the analysis and interpretation of forensic evidence – including ballistics, fingerprints, biological samples, shoe markings and digital data – that’s based on sound statistics and solid science. The center’s work is intended to benefit the justice and legal communities and law enforcement officials from the local to national levels.
“Reliable and accurate forensic evidence is a cornerstone of our justice system, so it’s critical that the analysis of evidence be based on scientifically supported methods and minimally influenced by human error or bias,” said Hal Stern, UCI interim provost and executive vice chancellor and a Chancellor’s Professor of statistics. “UCI researchers have played an important role in CSAFE since its early days and will continue to do so during the next five-year period.”
UCI’s share of the NIST funding is about $4 million. Stern leads the campus’s CSAFE team, which also includes Simon Cole, professor of criminology, law & society; Charless Fowlkes, professor of computer science; Nicholas Scurich, associate professor of psychological science; Padhraic Smyth, Chancellor’s Professor of computer science; and Bill Thompson, professor emeritus of criminology, law & society – as well as graduate and undergraduate students and other researchers.
UCI CSAFE members have worked with the Los Angeles Police Department to determine whether handwritten signatures that are highly complex are more difficult to forge. Others tried to calculate the likelihood of investigators identifying the type of shoe that made an impression found at a crime scene. Yet another group was established to develop new statistical techniques to serve the rapidly growing area of digital forensics.
“I know I speak for the entire CSAFE team here at UCI when I say that the work we do is both vitally important and extremely compelling as an academic pursuit,” Stern said. “We are all proud to be part of a center that has earned the confidence of NIST officials, who have chosen to extend this initiative dedicated to excellence in forensic science.”
Headquartered at Iowa State University, CSAFE also involves researchers at NIST, Carnegie Mellon University, Duke University, the University of Virginia and West Virginia University. The renewed funding will support the center from June 1 through the end of May 2025.
Article originally published at UCI News.

« Michelle Nuño Selected to Participate in the 70th Lindau Nobel Laureate MeetingHal Stern Selected as a Fellow of the International Society of Bayesian Analysis »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







