https://www.stat.uci.edu/ics-graduate-programs-in-statistics-and-computer-science-among-top-20-for-public-universities




ICS Graduate Programs in Statistics and Computer Science Among Top 20 for Public Universities 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
ICS Graduate Programs in Statistics and Computer Science Among Top 20 for Public Universities
April 1, 2022 

On March 29, 2022, U.S. News & World Report released its annual graduate school rankings, and UCI had 11 programs place in the top 20 for public universities. Among those were the computer science and statistics graduate programs in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS).

Of the 202 programs ranked for computer science, UCI was 14th for public universities and 28th overall.
“According to US News’ latest edition of Best Graduate Schools, we continue to climb and rank among the best in the nation,” says Tony Givargis, professor and chair of the Department of Computer Science. “It is exciting to be part of a department that is dedicated to exceptional research and high-quality education in a profoundly impactful academic discipline.”
Of the 101 programs ranked for statistics, UCI was 18th for public universities and 27th overall — up from 50th in 2018.
“We are very excited about our improved ranking,” says Dan Gillen, professor and chair of the Department of Statistics. “This is a reflection of our impressive students and faculty and the world-class research reputation that they have earned. We look forward to continued improvement in the coming years.”
UCI is one of the few universities in the country to house its computer science and statistics programs in a school dedicated to information and computer sciences, giving students a wide variety of multidisciplinary opportunities and broad coverage of both fields.
“UCI has established itself as a world-class public research university in a wide range of graduate disciplines,” said Gillian Hayes, vice provost for graduate education and dean of the Graduate Division. “These rankings confirm that our campus offers challenging and intellectually rich opportunities for students of all backgrounds to achieve academic and professional excellence.”
— Shani Murray

« MDS Student TY Shao Aims to Make an Impact in HealthcareApplications Open for New UCI Summer Biostatistics Institute for Undergraduate Students »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







