http://www.ics.uci.edu/~feldman/lec9F00.html




lec9F00.doc


Lecture Nine--ICS 131--Fall 2000--23 Oct 00

Deutsch, Claudia H., et al.  The Fading Copier King: Xerox has failed to capitalize on it own innovations, NY Times, 19 Oct 00, C1, C20 (R)
Coy, Peter.  The Myth of Corporate Reinvention:  The key is knowing when to give up--and just spin off the sexier parts of the business, BW, 30 Oct 00, 80-82.(R)
Christensen, Clayton M.  The Innovator's Dilemma, _____(O)
Greene, Jay.  Microsoft's Big Bet.  BW, 30 Oct 00, 152-163(R)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Review of Lecture Eight--E-tailing

	Future of e-tailing--combination of bricks and clicks
		might be better than pure plays--two examples
	Responsibility of web sites to protect consumers from fraud
	Responsibility of e-tailers in cases of pricing errors
	New ideas-	•sell software developed for in-house applications
			•figure out how to cope with e-tailing problems, e.g.,
			can't try on clothes
 
 
 
Lecture Nine

How do organizations cope with major changes in technology?

Scenario

	•Company has a product
	•Knows how to make it, sell it, service it, improve it
	•Company is successful
	•New technology comes along
	•Have to decide how to cope with new technology
Three recent example of problems in coping

	Xerox--The copier  company wants to shift to 
		printers, 
		outsourcing, 
		high-end publishing
		solutions company--
			designs and runs document systems for companies
	AT&T--The telephone company 
			(manufactured, installed, and operated 
			telephone networks) wants to get into
		broadband networks via cable
	Kodak--the color film in the yellow box company wants to shift to
		digital photo business
 
While each of these examples has individual characteristics,
they have some things in common with each other and with
other companies in this situation
	1.  Talented management
	2.  Access to high quality research
Why are they having problems?

	"Cultures prevent them from seizing
	opportunities to undermine the status quo"
	Can't break away from old technology and
		continue to serve core customers and
		keep profits high 
	The technologies are disruptive
		not good enough for core customers
		nor profitable enough for shareholders
		using money, but not generating revenue
		competing with needs of installed base
		threat to people working on core business
	So the new kid on the block comes in and
		knocks off the new technology
 
What should these companies  do?

BW's solution
	Spin off the new  technology.
	Let it fend for itself and
		not compete with the core business
	(What about BW online?)
NY Times' version of Xerox problems
	•Didn't take advantage of PARC developments
	GUI (apple, m/s), ethernet (3 com), printing software (adobe)
	ubiquitous computing
	•Made changes to sales force organization
	•Didn't keep up with copier technology
The Microsoft Dilemma

	How can M/S move from 
	a PC/Windows based operation
	to a net-based service operation?
	M/S has done a couple of 'net' things, Explorer, MSN, websites
	but the core business is still selling applications and O/S for PC's
	But the PC business is falling off,
	so what to do
	Rejects notion of converting M/S to a network business.
	What should M/S do?
		The .Net approach
	The  anti-trust action complicates things
 
Successful coping stories
 
Logistics
	Quiz 1 Scores
	Wednesday--Problems
	Week 5 Schedule
	Optional readings:  
	Landler, Mark.  A Filipino linked to 'love bug' talks about his 	license to hack, NY Times, 21 Oct 00, B1, B2
	Piller, Charles.  The place that tech forgot, 
	LA Times, 19 Oct 00, A1, A34, A35
	Boxall, Bettina.  Bay area cities try to stem dot-com tide, 
	LA Times, 19 Oct 00, A3, A32


