http://www.stat.uci.edu/faculty/brigitte-baldi




Brigitte Baldi 







































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
 










Brigitte Baldi 



Statistical ThinkingAs a lecturer, Dr. Brigitte Baldi focuses on teaching undergraduate students to think critically about data using quantitative reasoning skills. “The ability to approach data methodically to reach appropriate and nuanced conclusions in context is incredibly important,” she says. Her students come from a wide range of majors, and many have never had any formal exposure to statistical thinking. She uses examples from current scientific studies and news reports to give students hands-on experience, showcase the relevance of statistics, and perhaps spark a continuing interest in the study of data science.Active LearningQuantitative reasoning skills need to be honed with ample hands-on practice. Dr. Baldi received the UCI Certificate for Engaged Instruction for extensive in-class group work that is supported with Learning Assistants and the formative use of a student response system. She recently developed an introductory statistics course with a hybrid online/in-person format with a UC Innovative Learning Technology Initiative grant. “The format provides both flexibility for students to learn concepts at their own pace and live instructor guidance and feedback during active class work.” The design also enables wider student access via cross-campus enrollment.Educational MaterialDr. Baldi is also actively engaged in the development of educational material. She first produced ancillary material for a number of statistics textbooks and then worked with Professor David S. Moore to create The Practice of Statistics in the Life Sciences, a textbook aimed specifically at undergraduates majoring in biological science. “Teaching and writing are quite symbiotic,” she says. “Each new edition forces a full reexamination of pedagogical goals, informed by the statistics education community and my own teaching experience. This comprehensive process, in turn, makes me a better instructor.”











 




“The ability to approach data methodically to reach appropriate and nuanced conclusions in context is incredibly important.”Continuing lecturerbaldib@uci.eduDBH 2208website











 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy


















