https://www.ics.uci.edu/~ttrbst


Thorben Tröbst





Thorben Tröbst

        I'm a third year PhD student at UC Irvine supervised by Vijay Vazirani.
        My research interests are mainly combinatorial optimization and related disciplines as well as their applications to computational economics (market design, algorithmic game theory, etc.).
        I also like to think about mathematical logic and formal verification of proofs and programs from time to time.
        

            Before coming to UCI, I completed a B.Sc. and M.Sc. in Mathematics at the University of Bonn, Germany.
            There I was advised by Jens Vygen and Stephan Held and primarily worked on vehicle routing problems.
            In particular, I contributed to the BonnTour / DDG vehicle routing solver which is being developed in collaboration with the Deutsche Post DHL Group.
            I also did some work under Peter Koepke on formal mathematics.
            My CV (last update: Feburary 27, 2021) can be found here.
        

Contact Information


Email:
[first initial].troebst@uci.edu


Office:
4099 Donald Bren Hall


Publications

Z. Huang and T. Tröbst. Online Matching in Online and Matching-Based Market Design, F. Echenique, Nicole Immorlica, and V. V. Vazirani (eds), Cambridge University Press, to appear in 2022
        V. Traub and T. Tröbst. A Fast (2 + 2/7)-Approximation for Capacitated Cycle Covering, Mathematical Programming 2021
        V. Traub and T. Tröbst. A Fast (2 + 2/7)-Approximation for Capacitated Cycle Covering (Conference Version), IPCO 2020
        J. Garg, T. Tröbst, and V. V. Vazirani. An Arrow-Debreu Extension of the Hylland-Zeckhauser Scheme: Equilibrium Existence and Algorithms, to appear in AAMAS 2022
    
Preprints

J. Blauth, S. Held, D. Müller, N. Schlomberg, V. Traub, T. Tröbst, and J. Vygen. Vehicle Routing with Time-Dependent Travel Times: Theory, Practice, and Benchmarks
M. Mihail and T. Tröbst. Online Matching with High Probability
I. Panageas, T. Tröbst, and V. V. Vazirani Combinatorial Algorithms for Matching Markets via Nash Bargaining: One-Sided, Two-Sided, and Non-Bipartite
T. Tröbst and V. V. Vazirani. A Real Polynomial for Bipartite Graph Minimum Weight Perfect Matchings

Theses

T. Tröbst. Capacitated Vehicle Routing and Cycle Covering Problems, Master's Thesis, Research Institute for Discrete Mathematics, Bonn, 2019
T. Tröbst. Vehicle Routing mit Subtouren und Zeitfenstern, Bachelors's Thesis, Research Institute for Discrete Mathematics, Bonn, 2017

Talks

Online Matching with High Probability, CS Theory Seminar, UC Irvine, January 2022
Recent Advances in Online Matching: Edge-Weighted, CS Theory Seminar, UC Irvine, October 2021
One-Sided Matching Markets with Endowments: Equilibria and Algorithms, Online and Matching-Based Market Design Workshop, Simons Institute, Berkeley, March 2021
Fast Convergence in the Double Oral Auction, CS Theory Seminar, UC Irvine, January 2021
Online Matching from an Economics Viewpoint, CS Theory Seminar, UC Irvine, October 2020
Approximately Stable Committee Selection, CS Theory Seminar, UC Irvine, April 2020
A Fast (2 + 2/7)-Approximation Algorithm for Capacitated Cycle Covering, IPCO 2020, London, UK, June 2020



