https://www.stat.uci.edu/daniel-gillen-named-chancellors-professor




Daniel Gillen Named Chancellor’s Professor 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Daniel Gillen Named Chancellor’s Professor
July 26, 2022 

On July 1, 2022, Daniel Gillen, chair of the Department of Statistics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), was named a Chancellor’s Professor. The title recognizes faculty who have achieved acclaim for their accomplishments and who are highly likely to continue producing notable achievement in scholarship.

Gillen’s research focuses on developing and applying novel statistical methods — including survival analysis, longitudinal methods, sequential testing, and spatial risk estimation — for biomedical applications. His statistical methods research focuses primarily on valid and efficient statistical tools that are robust to commonly made assumptions. Among other achievements, his methodologic work has developed the underlying theory for censoring robust estimation in semi-parametric censored data models and adaptive sequential sampling methods for time-varying effects in clinical trials.
Gillen serves as the leader of the Data Management and Statistics Core at UCI Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center, where he focuses on biomarker development and validation and is co-PI on a  multidisciplinary grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), “Recruiting and Retaining Participants from Disadvantaged Neighborhoods in Registries.” The project focuses on participant recruitment and retainment for Alzheimer’s disease and related disorders (ADRD) research, examining what role recruitment registries for ADRD research can play in overcoming exclusions to improve research outcomes.
Gillen is also a special government employee (SGE) and adviser to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and he is active in working with industry sponsors to design and monitor international multisite clinical trials. In these roles, he applies his research to a wide range of clinical trial designs to investigate experimental therapies in multiple disease settings, including diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular disease.
— Shani Murray

« Conference Experience Confirms Competitive Edge of ICS Capstone ProgramStephan Mandt Named Mercator Fellow »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







