https://www.stat.uci.edu/michelle-nuno-selected-to-participate-in-the-70th-lindau-nobel-laureate-meeting




Michelle Nuño Selected to Participate in the 70th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Michelle Nuño Selected to Participate in the 70th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting
May 13, 2020 

Statistics Ph.D. candidate Michelle Nuño was selected to participate in the 70th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting taking place in Lindau, Germany. Each year, around 30 to 40 Nobel Laureates convene in Lindau to meet the next generation of leading scientists: 600 undergraduates, Ph.D. students and post-doc researchers from all over the world.

“I was very excited to learn that I had been selected,” says Nuño. Although the meeting has been postponed because of the coronavirus, she plans to participate in several online activities at the end of June 2020 as well as attend the rescheduled event at the end of June 2021. “I can’t wait to meet all the students and Nobel Laureates!”
Nuño has been a recipient of the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship, the Eugene Cota-Robles award and the Achievement Rewards for College Scientists (ARCS). “My latest research focuses on extending existing methodology to help with biomarker discovery, particularly in Alzheimer’s disease,” she says. “Another project that I am currently working on considers how different eligibility criteria can impact the ability to detect a treatment effect in clinical trials for Alzheimer’s disease treatments.” The latter project will help investigators adequately design proof-of-concept trials for Alzheimer’s disease.
Nuño will be graduating from UCI this summer and joining USC and the Children’s Oncology Group as an assistant professor. “I am very excited about this position and being able to contribute to the research they are all doing!”
— Shani Murray

« UCI Mind: “Alzheimer’s Disease, Clinical Trials, And COVID-19 With Dr. Daniel Gillen”UCI News: “National institute awards $20 million in renewed funding to forensic science center” »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







