https://www.ics.uci.edu/~iftekha/publication/measuring-effectiveness-of-mutant-sets





















Measuring Effectiveness of Mutant Sets. | 






Toggle navigation










Home




Research Group




Research




Publications




Awards




Projects




Experience




CV and Resume




Service




Contact




Advice








Measuring Effectiveness of Mutant Sets.

      
      Rahul Gopinath, Amin Alipour, Iftekhar Ahmed, Carlos Jensen, Alex Groce
      
    


































Abstract
Redundancy in mutants, where multiple mutants end up producing the same semantic variant of a program, is a major problem in mutation analysis. Hence, a measure of effectiveness that accounts for redundancy is an essential tool for evaluating mutation tools, new operators, and reduction techniques. Previous research suggests using the size of the disjoint mutant set as an effectiveness measure. We start from a simple premise: test suites need to be judged on both the number of unique variations in specifications they detect (as a variation measure), and also on how good they are at detecting hard-to-find faults (as a measure of thoroughness). Hence, any set of mutants should be judged by how well it supports these measurements. We show that the disjoint mutant set has two major inadequacies — the single variant assumption and the large test suite assumption — when used as a measure of effectiveness in variation. These stem from its reliance on minimal test suites. We show that when used to emulate hard to find bugs (as a measure of thoroughness), disjoint mutant set discards useful mutants. We propose two alternatives: one measures variation and is not vulnerable to either the single variant assumption or the large test suite assumption; the other measures thoroughness.




Type


            Conference proceedings
          










Publication
In International Conference  on  Software  Testing, Verification and Validation Workshop on Mutation Analysis.









Date

          May, 2016
        









Links


  PDF













← On the limits of mutation reduction strategies.
Does the Choice of Mutation Tool Matter? →







      © 2020 Iftekhar Ahmed · 

      Powered by the Academic
      theme for Hugo.

      




















