https://www.cs.uci.edu/sangeetha-abdu-jyothi-named-a-rising-star-in-networking-and-communications




Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi Named a “Rising Star” in Networking and Communications 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi Named a “Rising Star” in Networking and Communications
August 16, 2022 

N2Women (Networking Networking Women) has released its “2022: Rising Stars in Computer Networking and Communications” list, announcing 10 women from around the world “that you should watch” in this field. Among them is Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi, assistant professor of computer science at UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS).

“Sangeetha Abdu Jyothi has made significant contributions to Internet architecture, cluster scheduling, data center networks, and systems for machine learning,” says Professor Brighten Godfrey of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, who served as Abdu Jyothi’s Ph.D. adviser. “She is well known for her work on understanding the effects of solar superstorms on the resilience of the Internet, which identified areas of higher risk and mitigation techniques, and won the IETF/IRTF Applied Networking Research Prize. Her work has also won a Facebook Fellowship and the UIUC Mavis Future Faculty Fellowship.”
Abdu Jyothi says she is honored to have received the Rising Stars recognition. “It inspires me to continue my exploration of less-trodden paths in Internet resilience research.”
She presented her recent research, “Solar Superstorms: Planning for an Internet Apocalypse,” at SIGCOMM 2021, the annual conference of the ACM Special Interest Group on Data Communication. Soon after, her work was covered in a variety of publications, including Wired and Forbes.
Her research on understanding the resilience of the Internet infrastructure — and strengthening it — is ongoing. She is exploring ways to develop models for Internet failures, better understand the end-to-end behavior of Internet applications during large-scale network partitioning, and develop solutions for reconnecting a partitioned Internet and improving cloud resilience. As Abdu Jyothi has noted, “the Internet is a critical infrastructure in today’s society. Paying attention to large-scale threats and planning defenses against them is critical for the long-term resilience of the Internet.”
— Shani Murray
« Michael Franz Earns Distinguished Professor TitleUCLA and UCI Research Team Receives NSF Grant for Pandemic Prediction »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




