https://www.cs.uci.edu/a-trio-of-new-distinguished-professors-in-ics




A Trio of New Distinguished Professors in ICS 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


A Trio of New Distinguished Professors in ICS
August 30, 2019 
Three computer science professors in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) recently received the Distinguished Professor title: Rina Dechter, Michael Goodrich and Gene Tsudik. The title is a campus-level distinction for faculty who have “achieved the highest levels of scholarship over the course of their careers.”


Rina Dechter has made numerous contributions to the algorithmic foundations of automated reasoning and knowledge representation, including search, constraint processing and probabilistic reasoning. She is the author of the leading textbook Constraint Processing (Morgan Kaufmann, 2003) and of Reasoning with Probabilistic and Deterministic Graphical Models: Exact Algorithms (Morgan and Claypool, 2013; second edition 2019). She is an ACM and AAAI fellow and a recipient of the 2007 Research excellence award from the Association of Constraint Programming. Dechter is believed to be the first to introduce the phrase “deep learning” with her 1986 paper, “Learning While Searching in Constraint-Satisfaction Problems.”

Michael Goodrich, elected to the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences & Letters last year as a foreign member, is the Technical Director for the ICS Center for Algorithms and Theory of Computation and is a Fulbright Scholar and a fellow of AAAS, ACM and IEEE. Recognized as a world leader in the field of algorithm design, he has made major contributions to geometric computing, networking, geographic information systems, computer security and big data processing. His recent work includes contributions to efficient and secure distributed data structures, information privacy, social networks and cloud security, and he has served as a scientific consultant to AT&T, Walt Disney Animation Studios and the National Science Foundation.

Gene Tsudik conducts research in security, privacy and applied cryptography. One topic that his group is currently working on is Security of Internet of Things (IoT). The focus is on designing guaranteed-secure architectures and implementations thereof for simple IoT devices, which have been subject to numerous attacks and exploits. Gene Tsudik is, in his own words: “a Fellow of the usual professional societies and non-member of many others.”
These three esteemed faculty members join their ICS colleagues Pierre Baldi, Michael Carey, Nikil Dutt, Ramesh Jain, Alexandru Nicolau and Vijay Vazirani in earning the Distinguished Professor title.
— Shani Murray
« Professor Shuang Zhao Aims to Transform Physical Acquisition PipelinesNSF Continues Funding for AsterixDB with $2M Grant »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




