http://www.stat.uci.edu/faculty-directory/michele-guindani




Michele Guindani 







































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
 










Michele Guindani 



How the Brain WorksProfessor Guindani’s research proposes principled statistical approaches to study how brain regions activate when conducting specific tasks and how interactions among brain regions change dynamically over the course of an fMRI experiment. The brain’s ability to respond to stimuli and external events changes between individuals and explains individuals’ behaviors and decision-making processes. “My research tries to unveil the determinants of human behaviors through the analysis of brain imaging data,” he says. For example, he has studied individuals whose brains show a stronger response to food-related cues, which could contribute to our understanding of the neurobiological basis of vulnerability to obesity.Microbiome and Global Change“Many conditions, from obesity to anxiety, appear to be associated with the type, amount and distribution of microbes inside and outside the human body,” says Professor Guindani. “Similarly, microbial communities in our environment hold an essential role in governing the functioning of our planet.” His research interrogates data at different scales to investigate the role of microbes and their impact on different eco-systems, such as ocean temperature, agricultural outcomes and remediation of pollution. In one study, he investigated the role of fat and fiber in the association between a specific diet and the risk of colon cancer.Medical DiagnosesProfessor Guindani develops statistical methods that help with medical diagnoses by leveraging information contained in clinical images and combining it with clinical and genomic data. “For example, the spatial distribution of enhancement levels within a lesion image can help capture the complex patterns underlying the intrinsic heterogeneity observed in tumor pathology,” he says. “Adrenal lesion diagnosis remains a challenge for radiologist.” In a recent project, he helped develop a methodology that can capture spatial patterns in patients’ scans and yielded patterns from unsupervised learning that described malignant and benign majority subtypes when combined with pathology information.











 




“I leverage machine learning and statistical methods to overcome challenges created by the high-dimensional, multimodal, and multiscale nature of microbiome data.”Professor michele.guindani@uci.edu(949) 824-5968 DBH 2232website











 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy


















