https://www.stat.uci.edu/faculty/hengrui-cai/?




Hengrui Cai 







































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
 










Hengrui Cai 



Solving Real-World ProblemsProfessor Hengrui Cai studies methodology and theory in causal inference, reinforcement learning, and graphical models and their interchanges as she works to develop reliable and interpretable solutions to real-world problems. Currently, her focus is individualized optimal decision making — an artificial intelligence paradigm tailored to an individual’s characteristics. “My work involves complex data, policy optimization and evaluation in reinforcement learning, and causal discovery for high-dimensional individual mediation analysis,” she says. “This work is motivated by fields such as precision medicine, customized economics, modern epidemiology and personalized marketing.”Optimizing Individualized TreatmentLeveraging cutting-edge techniques in causal inference with reinforcement learning, Professor Cai aims to address certain issues with electronic health records, such as the need to coordinate multiple datasets from heterogeneous studies, utilize incomplete data structures, address continuous treatment domains, and be robust to unmeasured confounding variables. In particular, she is focused on patients in intensive care units. “I am working to develop an optimal individualized treatment rule, stored in electronic health records, for ICU patients,” she says. “Developing an individualized treatment rule can help assign the right treatment to the right patients at the right time.”Providing Next-Generation AnalysisAnother area of interest for Professor Cai is discovering causality among variables. For example, with COVID-19, quantifying the causal effects of approaches aimed at reducing the spread of the virus, regulated by other mediators, is challenging. “My team and I integrate state-of-the-art approaches in causal inference and graphical models to establish a new statistical framework to comprehensively characterize different sources of causal effects through individual mediators,” she explains. “The goal is the next-generation analysis of causal effects, interpreting the causal mechanism contributing at an individual level and identifying the crucial component in various processes, such as virus spread, gene expression or supply chains.











 




“Our research thrives on the era of causal evolution with the new generation of artificial intelligence, to establish reliable, powerful, and interpretable solutions to real-world problems.”Assistant Professorhengrc1@uci.eduDBH 2019website











 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy


















