http://cradl.ics.uci.edu/?page_id=104





David Redmiles, Professor | CRADL Lab




























Home
News
People
Projects
Publications
 













David Redmiles, Professor


 Full profile







David Redmiles, Professor
 Projects: VOSS trust project, Virtual Worlds, End Users, and Meta-Design
 Website
 Research areas: Computer-Supported Cooperative Work; Human-Computer Interaction; Software Engineering

 

 
 David Redmiles is a Professor in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences and a member of the Institute for Software Research (ISR) at the University of California, Irvine (UCI). He is the author of over 100 research publications. He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Colorado, Boulder (CU Boulder), in 1992. His dissertation research was in the area of software comprehension and software reuse. Between 1992 and 1994, he continued working at CU Boulder as part of the research faculty in the Department of Computer Science. During this period, he performed research in the areas of knowledge-based collaborations and distance learning. Dr. Redmiles joined the faculty at UC Irvine in 1994. There, along with his research group, he has researched intelligent user interfaces for software design and programming; software tools for automated collection of usability data; event-based distributed software architectures; and software tools for supporting awareness and trust in distributed, virtual teams. His research group builds systems and performs quantitative and qualitative evaluations. Many of these studies take place at large corporate and governmental organizations. 
For many years, Dr. Redmiles has been involved in the IEEE/ACM Conference on Automated Software Engineering, serving on the steering committee and organizing the 2005 conference as general chair. That research community designated him Fellow of Automated Software Engineering in 2009 and in 2010 awarded him and his co-authors the first Most Influential Paper Award for their 1996 paper on software design environments. He has also organized a number of panels and workshops held in conjunction with the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI), the ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW), and the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). From 2004 to 2007, he chaired the Department of Informatics at UCI. During this period there was a great expansion of the faculty, facilities, and degree programs.
Research Interests: computer-supported cooperative work; human-computer interaction; software engineering; individual, organizational, and social implications of computing; intelligent user interfaces; visual user interfaces; usability inspection methods; usability studies; field studies; communication, awareness, and trust in distributed teams.



















News


SuCSES is coming!


Site Tools

Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.org

 


CRADL receives funding from the National Science Foundation under grants 0943262, 0808783, and 1111446.
 
Department of Informatics | Donald Bren School of Information and Computer SciencesBren Hall 5042 | University of California, Irvine | Irvine, CA 92697-3440cradl_info@ics.uci.edu
 
Powered by WordPress | Theme: Yoko by Elmastudio | Header image: E. Howe
Top




