https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1532



In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News


In the News



April 24,  2019


ICS Partnership with Allen Institute for AI Advances Machine Learning


The mission of the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence (AI2) is to “contribute to humanity through high-impact AI research and engineering.” In support of that mission, the nonprofit — started by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen — often collaborates with other institutions, and one of its latest partnerships is with the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS).
“Researchers from a diversity of institutions bring different perspectives, motivations and previous experiences to a cross-institution collaboration,” says Matt Gardner, a senior research scientist at AI2. “This is a huge help in both identifying and executing on the most promising new research directions.” As a member of the AllenNLP team, Gardner’s research focuses on deep learning for natural language processing, and he’s now furthering that work as a visiting scholar at UCI.

“UCI specifically has a strong history of excellence in machine learning and employs several world-class scientists in the field, making this a really beneficial partnership for us at AI2.” In particular, Gardner is working closely with Assistant Professor of Computer Science Sameer Singh and his NLP group.
AI2 researcher Matt Gardner (front, left) and Computer Science Professor Sameer Singh (front, right)
with members of the UCI NLP group (from left): Zhengli Zhao, Robert Logan, Eric Wallace (an AI2 intern),
Pouya Pezeshkpour and Dheeru Dua.
“Our high-level research goal is getting machines to read,” says Singh, whose group will host additional AI2 employees and interns throughout the year. In return, AI2 is providing funding for graduate student support. The team is currently working to build AI algorithms that can read and understand paragraph-size text.
“One of Paul Allen’s original goals in starting AI2 was to have a computer that could read a college biology textbook and talk to you about what is in it,” explains Gardner. “Imagine a system that could read all of PubMed and answer doctors’ questions about the latest research related to a particularly challenging case they see in a patient, or a system that could read all of PACER and tell lawyers what precedents are applicable to their current litigation.” The AI2/ICS team is starting with paragraphs but will slowly build toward larger and more complex pieces of text.
In fact, the collaboration has already produced a new research dataset and a related paper, “DROP: A Reading Comprehension Benchmark Requiring Discrete Reasoning Over Paragraphs.” The paper introduces a new English reading comprehension benchmark and a model that combines reading comprehension methods with simple numerical reasoning. Gardner and Singh, along with Singh’s Ph.D. student Dheeru Dua, will present the work in June at the 2019 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL). 
“When I moved to Irvine,” notes Gardner, “Sameer and I were thinking of projects to start collaborating on… and this seemed like a natural fit — something I had been wanting to do and that Sameer and Dheeru were excited about working on.”
Singh and his team are indeed excited about the work. “AI2 is a top-tier research institute,” says Singh, pleased with the partnership and looking forward to continued work with AI2 researchers. “We are just now starting to gain momentum.”
Gardner agrees. “We’ve done some great work already, and we have more in progress,” he says. “AI2 is growing in Irvine, and we’re looking forward to a long and fruitful collaboration with UCI.”

— Shani Murray

ICS Partnership with Allen Institute for AI Advances Machine Learning
< Previous
 All-Female Capstone Team Delivers for Emergency Preparedness Program
            
Next >
 Autism and Fanfiction
            







More news and events

News Stories
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media Inquiries Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or matt.miller@uci.edu








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











