https://www.cs.uci.edu/pierre-baldi-tackles-deep-learning-at-800th-anniversary-of-the-university-of-padova-in-italy




Pierre Baldi Tackles Deep Learning at 800th Anniversary of the University of Padova in Italy 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Pierre Baldi Tackles Deep Learning at 800th Anniversary of the University of Padova in Italy
June 6, 2022 

Distinguished Professor of Computer Science Pierre Baldi of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) was recently in Italy to discuss AI and deep learning. On May 19, 2022, the University of Padova kicked off a weeklong celebration of its 800th anniversary with various panels and talks. The University of Padova, founded in 1222, is the second-oldest university in Italy and the fifth-oldest surviving university in the world. Copernicus and Galileo were both students of Padova. So, it’s no surprise the celebration would include thought-provoking academic discussions of theory and practice.
Baldi, director of UCI’s Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics, gave a talk on deep learning focused on “The Quarks of Attention,” and participated in a panel discussion comprised of leading experts addressing “Mathematical Challenges in an AI-Driven World.”

From left: Chair of the “Mathematical Challenges in an AI-Driven World” panel, Ernesto De Vito (Università di Genova), and panelists Tomaso Poggio (MIT), Yann LeCun (NYU/Meta) and Pierre Baldi (UCI).
“The focus of the panel was primarily on the relationships between AI and mathematics,” says Baldi. “We tackled questions such as how important is mathematics for AI? What are the main mathematical open questions and needs in AI? Can AI help mathematics?”
He was accompanied on the panel by Tomaso Poggio of MIT and Yann LeCun of New York University and Meta. The panelists were not always in agreement, and you can watch their in-depth discussion online.
— Shani Murray
« The Conversation: “What are digital twins? A pair of computer modeling experts explain” (Co-author: Nalini Venkatasubramanian)UCI News: “UCI wins 5-year, $14M NIH grant to study brain circuits susceptible to aging, Alzheimer’s disease” (Gopi Meenakshisundaram mentioned) »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




