https://www.stat.uci.edu/statistics-ph-d-alumnus-andrew-holbrook-18-named-a-finalist-for-the-savage-award




Statistics Ph.D. Alumnus Andrew Holbrook ’18 Named a Finalist for the Savage Award 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Statistics Ph.D. Alumnus Andrew Holbrook ’18 Named a Finalist for the Savage Award
January 9, 2019 UCI graduate Andrew Holbrook, Ph.D. ’18, was recently selected as a finalist for the Savage Award in Theory and Methods for his dissertation and its contribution to Bayesian statistics. “This is by far one of the most prestigious awards in our field,” says Associate Professor of Statistics Babak Shahbaba, Holbrook’s Ph.D. adviser. “Regardless of the final outcome, this is a great accomplishment [and] a testament to his hard work and dedication.”

The Savage Award, which honors Leonard “Jimmie” Savage, is awarded each year to two outstanding doctoral dissertations in Bayesian econometrics and statistics — one for “theory and methods” and the other for “applied methodology.” Each award includes a monetary prize.
This year’s finalists will present their research during a special section in July at the Joint Statistical Meetings (JSM 2019) in Denver, Colorado, where the winner will be announced. Holbrook will present his work, “Geometric Bayes,” which explores the overlap between Bayesian statistical analysis and differential geometry. “The central question was whether this pure mathematical discipline could be useful, in previously unconsidered ways, to real-world statistics,” says Holbrook. “In particular, I developed ‘geometric Bayesian’ methods to analyze dynamic and high-dimensional brain data we obtained in collaborations with our colleagues in neuroscience.”
Holbrook, also the 2018 Carl Cotman Young Investigator Award Recipient and now a postdoc fellow at UCLA, was surprised to receive this honor. “I re-read the email a number of times,” he admits. Once he was able to assure himself that the email wasn’t sent in error, he was “extremely” happy. “Writing a dissertation is like riding a roller coaster,” he says. “Self-doubt is an inherent part of it. This honor is a great affirmation.”
— Shani Murray

« Multidepartmental Collaboration on Detecting Code Clones Leads to Distinguished Paper AwardTrio of ICS Professors Preview Tech Trends for 2019 »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







