https://www.cs.uci.edu/ics-and-google-researchers-awarded-best-task-paper-for-collaboration-on-automatically-updating-wikipedia




ICS and Google Researchers Awarded Best Task Paper for Collaboration on Automatically Updating Wikipedia 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


ICS and Google Researchers Awarded Best Task Paper for Collaboration on Automatically Updating Wikipedia
July 21, 2022 
Sameer Singh and Robert Logan at the ICS Commencement Ceremony.
When Robert Logan, a Ph.D. student in UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), started a summer internship at Google last year, he says he wanted to “flip things around.” Instead of seeing whether knowledge bases could be used to improve language models, the goal was to explore whether language models could be used to improve knowledge bases.
“In the short span of a summer internship, we decided to look into the novel task of whether language models could be used to automatically update Wikipedia articles when given new information about the article subject,” says Logan. “I have a lot of experience building datasets from Wikipedia that I was able to draw upon in order to create a dataset for this task, and Google has compute infrastructure that makes training large language models fast and painless.”

The results of the work are outlined in the paper, “FRUIT: Faithfully Reflecting Updated Information in Text,” by Logan; his Ph.D. adviser, Sameer Singh; and Google researchers Alexandre Tachard Passos and Ming-Wei Chang. The collaboration earned a “Best New Task Paper” award at the 2022 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL 2022), held July 10-15.
According to the award committee, the work presents an “interesting and relevant” new natural language processing (NLP) challenge: “that of updating information from a knowledge base given new evidence.” Stressing the need to automatically update information in many real-world applications, the committee praised the authors for tackling the task of contrasting textual evidence to decide which pieces are outdated and then generating language to produce the new text.
Singh says he was excited to work on this project for several reasons, including providing a way to help the many volunteers who maintain Wikipedia. “Second, from an NLP perspective, this kind of task really pushes the field: it is only recently that machine-generated text comes close to being good enough to replace human-generated text, and further, generating factually grounded and consistent text is still challenging for current models,” he explains. “This task requires the language models to be able to address these challenges, which will make NLP models useful for many tasks in the real world.” [He notes that Meta is also now pursuing similar research directions.]



Logan successfully defended his thesis in June and starts work as a research scientist this month at Dataminr, conducting research into real-time event detection and summarization. Of his work on FRUIT, Logan highlights that FRUIT is unique from other tasks where faithful generation is important (such as automatically summarizing news articles) in that it uses models to edit an existing piece of text instead of writing everything from scratch. “This could enable some really cool applications,” he says, “like autocomplete systems that leverage information from external references, or automatic summarization systems that generate live updates of breaking news.”
— Shani Murray
« Master of Computer Science Students Pitch Products and Network at Spring 2022 ShowcaseConference Experience Confirms Competitive Edge of ICS Capstone Program »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




