https://www.cs.uci.edu/sergio-gago-masague-collaborates-on-1-8m-grant-to-counter-negative-medication-beliefs




Sergio Gago-Masague Collaborates on $1.8M Grant to Counter Negative Medication Beliefs 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Sergio Gago-Masague Collaborates on $1.8M Grant to Counter Negative Medication Beliefs
October 15, 2019 
There are reminder apps for people who frequently forget to take their medication, but what about for those who don’t think they need the medication in the first place?
“Culturally bound, negative beliefs about medications, and a preference to replace medications with natural remedies, are common in disadvantaged Latino communities,” states a recent grant proposal, “but are rarely discussed with health providers due to language barriers, low health literacy and cultural distance.” The proposal comes from two UCI researchers, Sergio Gago-Masague and John Billimek, who are working to address this issue.

Gago-Masague is an assistant professor of teaching in the Department of Computer Science and director of the Engaging Technology and Application Design (ETAD) Lab at the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology (Calit2). Billimek is the director for community engagement and administrative affairs for the Program in Medical Education for the Latino Community (PRIME-LC). Their collaboration has resulted in the grant, “Mi Propio Camino (My Own Way): Addressing Negative Beliefs about Medication to Improve Adherence among Hispanic Adults with Hypertension,” which was recently awarded $1.8 million by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) through its National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI).
The goal is to “test an intervention driven by an IoT system focused on addressing negative beliefs about medication in a large, high-risk population — Latino adults with diabetes and uncontrolled hypertension,” says Gago-Masague. “We will test a conceptual framework that will inform future development of novel interventions tailored for other at-risk populations.”
Gago-Masague is in charge of the technical side, including software implementation, data collection and data visualization, while Billimek is leading the clinical side, recruiting and interviewing patients and conducting follow-up visits. “I’ve worked with Dr. Billimek for the last four years building a prototype for this project,” says Gago-Masague. “We have mostly worked with students at UCI through the Calit2 Multidisciplinary Design Program for the past few years, who helped with the app design.”
For the study, during three group medical visit (GMV) sessions, discussions of strategies to lower blood pressure will incorporate not only medication but also culturally bound perspectives on lifestyle and natural remedies. Then, patients will participate in two brief instances of home monitoring with mHealth devices, prompting patients to discuss their individual experiences with a regimen. The hope is to identify a way to promote medication adherence. Otherwise, as noted in the proposal, “failing to meet this need will likely lead to continued disparities in adherence to evidence-based antihypertensive therapies and in preventable complications among the 2.5 million Latino adults with comorbid diabetes and hypertension.”
— Shani Murray
« Financial Times: “Cyber fraud techniques evolve into confidence trick arms race” (Ian Harris quoted)Student Spotlight: Ryan Yang and the Instant Popularity of Boba Watch »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




