https://www.stat.uci.edu/elizabeth-lee-wins-data-science-for-social-good-award




Elizabeth Lee Wins Data Science for Social Good Award 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Elizabeth Lee Wins Data Science for Social Good Award
October 19, 2021 
UCI data science major Elizabeth Lee is the 2021 recipient of the Richard and Patricia Utts Data Science for Social Good Award. First established in 2019 by Statistics Professor Emerita Jessica Utts, the award comes with a $5,000 scholarship in support of leveraging data science to make the world a better place.

Elizabeth Lee with her certificate for the Richard and Patricia Utts Data Science for Social Good Award.
“I am super grateful for this award and opportunity,” says Lee, who first learned about data science from an alumnus of her high school who went on to major in data science. “He explained to me that it was like a combination of statistics and computer science, and having enjoyed taking AP Statistics previously, I became interested in the field.” She later learned more about how data science is used in real-world applications. “It really amazed me how it influences so much of what we see through a Google search, for example, and the choices that we make.”
Today, Lee is a sophomore in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) who plans to start a career in data science before possibly returning for graduate school. “I hope that data science can be used as a tool to improve statistical literacy in students through the education system,” she says. “So much of what shapes the opinions and thoughts of our current society come from the internet, and with this comes the high chance of misinformation through misleading graphics and data.”
Lee first realized the potential for misinformation back in high school. “After reading How to Lie with Statistics by Darrell Huff in my AP Statistics class, it really opened my eyes to how easily we all can be deceived,” she says. “I hope data science’s incorporation into education helps combat the subtle but dangerous effects of misinformation [and] leads to more productive conversations, help[ing] our society feel comfortable in investigating the information we are presented with.”
Lee’s goal of better incorporating data science into education to combat misinformation sits well with the award’s founder. “Her focus on improving statistical literacy aligns with what I spent my career promoting,” says Utts (who in August earned the 2021 George Cobb Lifetime Achievement Award in Statistics Education). “And statistical literacy now plays a major role in the careers pursued by both of my parents, for whom this scholarship is named, with one in journalism and the other in social work,” she adds. “I’m delighted that Elizabeth is the recipient of this scholarship.”
— Shani Murray

« Stephan Mandt and Collaborators Receive $3.5 Million to Study Machine Learning for Climate ScienceStatistics Ph.D. Student Tianyu Pan Wins Two Competitive Awards »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







