https://www.cs.uci.edu/ics-researchers-win-best-paper-award-at-eurosys-2022




ICS Researchers Win Best Paper Award at Eurosys 2022 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


ICS Researchers Win Best Paper Award at Eurosys 2022
April 8, 2022 

Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Michael Franz and a group of current and former Ph.D. students and postdoctoral researchers from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) recently won the Best Paper Award at the European Conference on Computer Systems (EuroSys 2022), a flagship venue in system software. The paper, “PKRU-Safe: Automatically Locking Down the Heap Between Safe and Unsafe Languages,” is by Ph.D. students Paul Kirth and Mitchel Dickerson, Immunant CTO Stephen Crane and CEO Per Larsen, postdoctoral researchers Adrian Dabrowski and David Gens, Apple software engineer Yeoul Na, KU Leuven Professor Stijn Volckaert, and Franz.

As the authors outline in the paper, memory safety violations remain a major cause of security vulnerabilities in real-world software. Although memory-safe languages, such as Rust, can help developers write efficient low-level code without the risk of memory corruption, these languages still must interface with unsafe code, giving attackers an opportunity to exploit memory-corruption vulnerabilities. PKRU-Safe is an automated method for dealing with unsafe components in mixed-language environments.
“This work makes it much easier to build ‘mixed’ systems in which one part is written in a modern language such as Rust while other parts are legacy code written in C or C++,” explains Franz. “It ensures that the unsafe parts cannot mess up the private data of the code written in the modern language, even if the two parts of the program have complex mutual interactions.” This is a significant improvement compared to current methods. “Our solution makes it much simpler to migrate legacy code gradually over time while the resulting system successively acquires the benefits of the modern language,” says Franz. “In the existing solution, you don’t get this benefit until all the legacy code is fully migrated.”
— Shani Murray
« Machine Learning Street Talk Podcast: “NLP Benchmarks & ML DevOps Interoperability With Yasaman Razeghi and Prof. Sameer Singh”Machine Learning ‘Street Talk’ Podcast Features Reality Check from Sameer Singh and Yasaman Razeghi »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




