https://www.ics.uci.edu/~ampiper








Anne Marie Piper
















Anne Marie Piper






About
Research Group
Publications
CV










					I am an Associate Professor in the Department of Informatics at The University of California, Irvine. My research in human-computer interaction and accessible computing aims to create more equitable and inclusive digital experiences for people of all ages and abilities. My prior and ongoing work focuses on designing new technologies for collaborative work among ability-diverse teams of professionals and academics; developing accessible content production tools for artists, writers, and musicians who are blind; and leveraging the arts as a form of expression and resource for designing alongside people with dementia or speech-language impairments. My research and teaching has been recognized with an NSF CAREER Award, Alumnae of Northwestern Award for Curriculum Development, Best Paper Awards and Nominations at ACM CHI, CSCW, DIS, and ASSETS, and a UC-San Diego Interdisciplinary Scholar Award. I received my PhD in Cognitive Science from the University of California, San Diego, MA in Education from Stanford University, and BS in Computer Science from Georgia Tech. Prior to joining UC-Irvine, I was a faculty member in Communication Studies at Northwestern University.
				






Affiliations
UCI Department of Informatics, Associate Professor
							UCI Accessibility Research Collective, founding member
UCI Steckler Center for Responsible, Ethical, and Accessible Technology (CREATE), Associate Director
UCI Master's in Human-Computer Interaction and Design (MHCID), Faculty Director

Research Highlights

A core area of my research involves studying, designing, and building new digital tools for accessible content production. We received an NSF Medium Award to study and design the future of content production tools for people with vision impairments. More details are listed on our project website.
										
						I have written extensively on understanding technology and online life among older adults, including issues of ageism in technology design and what it means to age online in the context of disability.
						My work also understands participatory design methods involving people with complex communication needs (e.g., dementia, aphasia, trauma) and how co-design can be made more equiable and just.
A previous NSF-funded project explored the design and evaluation of surface haptics for young children's science learning. See our project website for more details.

Contact

							ampiper (at) uci (dot) edu
							


							Donald Bren Hall
							Department of Informatics
							School of Information and Computer Science
							University of California, Irvine
						







              Department of Informatics
              School of Information and Computer Science
              University of California, Irvine
        












