http://www.ics.uci.edu/~jsolson







Making Distance Matter Less





















































































 

 





Skip to content





 
Making Distance Matter Less


Menu
Judith Olson
Projects

Virtual Teams
Collaboration Success Wizard
The Rollout of Google Applications on Campuses
DocuViz
The Science of Collaboratories
Collective Intelligence
Using Google Glass in Collaboration
Cultural Variations in Seed Accelerators
Changing Perceptions of Privacy Online
AuthorViz
Novox
Telepresence Robots
Women in Technology


Publications

Computer Supported Cooperative Work
Human-Computer Interaction
Cognitive Psychology
Other


Vita
 






Judith Olson 


Judith Olson is the Bren Professor of Information and Computer Sciences in the Informatics Department at the UC Irvine, with courtesy appointments in the School of Social Ecology and the Merage School of Business.
For over 20 years, she has researched teams whose members are not collocated, summaries of which are found in her most cited paper, “Distance Matters,” (Olson & Olson, 2000), and in her key theoretical contribution in the book Scientific Collaboration on the Internet (Olson, Zimerman, and Bos, Eds., 2008). Her latest book on this topic is Working Together Apart (Olson & Olson, 2014).
Her current work focuses more on the details of collaborative writing: visualizing the development of a collaboratively written document, showing who wrote what, and, eventually, detecting when the “voice” changes because of authorship change.
She is a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery and with her husband and colleague, Gary Olson, holds the Lifetime Achievement award from the Special Interest Group in Computer Human Interaction. In 2011, she was awarded the ACM-W Athena Lecture, the equivalent of the Woman of the Year in Computer Science.  In 2015, Larry Page was quoted in the book Innovations saying that the course that influenced him the most when he was an undergraduate was a course she taught on human-computer interaction.


 
 








Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.


















		Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. 
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here:
				
			Cookie Policy		


  


 





				judithsolson.com			



 Customize


Sign up
Log in
Copy shortlink
Report this content

Manage subscriptions










 




















































































Loading Comments...



 


Write a Comment...




Email (Required)



Name (Required)



Website







































 




