https://www.stat.uci.edu/disney-research-supports-stephan-mandts-work-on-generative-modeling-with-50000-gift




Disney Research Supports Stephan Mandt’s Work on Generative Modeling with $50,000 Gift 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Disney Research Supports Stephan Mandt’s Work on Generative Modeling with $50,000 Gift
December 1, 2021 

Stephan Mandt, an assistant professor of computer science and statistics in UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), received an unrestricted gift of $50,000 from Disney Research Los Angeles to support his work on generative modeling.
Mandt is exploring how to use machine learning under resource constraints — in particular, given a lack of relevant training data. “In other words, how might you train a deep learning algorithm to mimic speech when you don’t have massive amounts of available speech recordings?”

Mandt is currently teaching a related course (CS 295: Deep Generative Models), examining how deep learning models can generate new data such as video, text, speech or images. These models generate artificial data that humans cannot easily distinguish from real-world data. At the same time, deep generative models can also be used to compress data such as images with unprecedented performance.
“This course is essentially along the lines of some of my work on generating and compressing images and video,” he says. “We can apply similar tools that we use to generate artificial video and other sequential data to generate acoustic data and speech.”
Mandt’s approach toward resource-efficient deep learning uses a unified set of mathematical and statistical methods, where he combines ideas from deep learning, Bayesian statistics, and information theory. “Making deep learning more resource-efficient is of enormous societal relevance,” he explained after receiving an NSF CAREER Award earlier this year. “Algorithms will make better decisions with less data, making them more reliable in safety-critical areas such as autonomous driving. Also, more data can be processed with less energy and storage.” This unrestricted gift will help advance Mandt’s research and teaching in the area of deep generative modeling.
— Shani Murray

« Beyond the T-Test: UCI Professors Publish New Statistical Guidance for Neuroscience ResearchGraduate Student Spotlight: MDS Ambassador Adelynn Paik Shares Her Academic, Professional Goals »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







