https://www.cs.uci.edu/pierre-baldi-and-peter-sadawski-receive-aij-paper-award




Pierre Baldi and Peter Sadawski Receive AIJ Paper Award 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Pierre Baldi and Peter Sadawski Receive AIJ Paper Award
July 8, 2019 

Back in May 2014, Distinguished Professor of Computer Science Pierre Baldi and his Ph.D. student Peter Sadowski published a paper, “The Dropout Learning Algorithm,” in Artificial Intelligence Journal (AIJ). Five years later, the paper has been recognized with the 2019 AIJ Prominent Paper Award. The award recognizes outstanding AIJ papers — published within the past seven years — that are “exceptional in their significance and impact.”

“Dropout is an important machine learning algorithm, used primarily to avoid overfitting when training large neural networks,” explains Baldi. Avoiding overfitting is critical to developing models that generalize well, far beyond their training data. “This paper was the first to derive a mathematical theory of dropout and explain how it works.” Sadowski performed the simulations presented in the paper, while Baldi derived the theory. “The paper also uncovered interesting connections between dropout and other areas of statistics.”
Sadowski, who is now an assistant professor of information and computer science at the University of Hawaii, will be at the 2019 International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI 2019) in Macau, China in August to attend the award ceremony.
« Los Angeles Times: “UCI computer scientists make art come alive at the Venice Biennale”Pierre Baldi Publishes Paper in Nature Machine Intelligence »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




