http://www.ics.uci.edu/%7Egts/words.html






Gene Tsudik's Info Page





Gene
Tsudik


Extinguished
Professor of Computer Science  

Computer Science Department

Pewterschmidt School of Information
and Computer Sciences 


University of Caliphoneya, Irvine 





Some words I invented, but (sadly) never trademarked: 


  Humarrhoid (noun)


:a perennially irritated, cantankerous and annoyed person; a fairly common species among tenured faculty.

  Collabortion (noun)


:an attempt at (e.g., scientific) collaboration that has failed 
or never took off.

  Shizza (noun)


:a form of pseudo-nourishment typically offered at academic gatherings 
(faculty- and/or student-attended)
in the United States. It is rumored to be distantly related to pizza. 



  Cryptosexual (adj, opt. noun)


:a person whose sexual orientation can not be guessed with probability
greater than (0.5+\epsilon), where \epsilon is a security parameter.


 Donorrhea (noun) 


:the state of uncontrolled donation to political, religious or other causes. Sadly, it has 
no cure.

 Mediot (noun) 


:a person who uses fancy multi-media tools in a presentation (or publication) to obscure
lack of substance/content.

 Glopeteria (noun) 


:a food-serving establishment offering a rich assortment of (usually overpriced)
glop, e.g., certain eateries at UCI.

 Homocitational (adj) 



:refers to the behavior of a person who chronically cites him/her-self 
(a common academic disease). Use example:  Joe's recent publications
exhibit signs of homocitational behavior. 

 Cryptonecrophilia (noun) 



:an act of repeatedly finding "holes" or "bugs" in a long-dead (broken) 
cryptosystem, scheme or protocol.

 Cryptolibel (noun) 



:an act of besmirching the reputation of a cryptosystem, scheme or protocol by 
any combination of: (1) empty claims,  (2) broken attacks, (3) attacks on properties 
never claimed by the "victim". 

 Sloppid (adj) 



:refers to a person who is both  stupid  and  sloppy . 

 Teutological (adj) 



:refers to Teutonic logic or reasoning which is, simulteneosly: pedantic, 
rigid, self-righteous and dull.

 Obsecure (verb) 



:to apply ineffective or inappropriate security techniques in order 
to address non-existent or exaggerated security threats. 

 Mediocrat (noun) 



:a medio-cre (usually self-important, seemingly irreplaceable and perennially busy) bureau-crat

 Econdomy (noun)



:E-condom-y: nefarious cottage industry that uses 
scare tactics and borderline malware to peddle its (usually ineffective
and over-priced) "security" products to naive users. 



 Youthanasia (noun)



:Youth-an-asia: activity (popular in Orange County) that involves 
repeated voluntary submission to  plastic surgery; usually yields extremely 
grotesque results that can prompt fear and panic attacks in small children 
and household pets. 


 Geekosystem (noun)



:Geek-oh-system :  microcosm, often within the confines of a small lab,
inhabited by k>2 earnest geeks who "feed off each other" in terms of humor,
hygiene, dietary habits and entertainment choices. 




