https://www.cs.uci.edu/cpri-receives-1-4m-gift-for-securing-the-seams-of-the-internet-of-everything




CPRI Receives $1.4M Gift for Securing the Seams of the Internet of Everything 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


CPRI Receives $1.4M Gift for Securing the Seams of the Internet of Everything
February 15, 2019 

The Herman P. & Sophia Taubman Foundation has provided a generous
 gift of $1.4 million to UCI’s Cybersecurity Policy & Research 
Institute (CPRI), led by Executive Director Bryan Cunningham.
 Founded in the 1960s by the six children of Herman and Sophia Taubman, 
the foundation aims to promote the advancement of scientific research, 
higher education and community philanthropy. Six Taubman cousins manage 
the foundation, including attorney Perry Taubman, currentlya
 visiting scholar at UC San Diego researching autonomous agents for 
medical diagnosis and insurance coding. Taubman and his cousins 
understand the crucial need for research focused on cybersecurity and 
the emerging Internet of Everything (IoE) — that is, the interaction 
between the traditional internet and the hundreds of millions of 
connected Internet of Things (IoT) devices.

“The board members of the foundation have professional careers in 
law, technology, medicine and infrastructure finance,” says Taubman. “We
 have all been concerned for a long time about cybersecurity in terms of
 our professional fields and as citizens on the level of national 
security.” Consequently, the foundation was seeking ways to advance 
practical solutions in this area. “I personally looked at the 
cybersecurity research programs at a number of universities and felt 
that CPRI, under Bryan Cunningham’s leadership, had a uniquely suited 
focus around all of these areas.”
Cunningham is excited about this partnership to “secure the seams of 
the IoE.” As he notes, “we could not be more thrilled with the Taubman 
family’s support and with Perry’s participation in our efforts.” Drawing
 on UCI’s multidisciplinary expertise, these new IoE efforts aim to fill
 a void in current cybersecurity-related research and policy and 
technical solutions development. “Our very strong team will address 
important and pressing issues affecting not only the privacy and 
security of individuals but also our country’s economic and national 
security,” he explains. “This mission is squarely in CPRI’s wheelhouse.”
The foundation’s gift will provide resources to support three new 
CPRI projects focused on the IoT and IoE. Computer Science Professor Ian Harris
 is leading efforts to perform IoT/IoE technical testing and develop an 
IoE Cyber Test Range on the UCI campus, and Computer Science Professor Scott Jordan is heading up research into regulation and standards setting. UCI Law Professor Shauhin Talesh is exploring the emerging role of insurance companies as de facto cyber regulators. Cunningham will act as the overall lead for the interrelated projects.
“All of these areas are critical for advancing cybersecurity,” says 
Taubman. Furthermore, the projects address his two main concerns 
surrounding IoE — the lack of standards and the difficulty in securing 
embedded systems. “This requires expertise in engineering that is very 
different from traditional security,” he explains. “We found a unique 
team on the technical side with Ian and Scott who were able to approach 
the problem from both an engineering and policy perspective.”
The gift will provide funding for Ph.D. candidate researchers, 
facilities and equipment for IoE testing, data analysis support, and 
standards and policy development. It will also support undergraduate 
research and education, enable CPRI and its team to hold multiple 
conferences, and support UCI students in cybersecurity “Capture the 
Flag” competitions.
All of this fits well with the Taubman Foundation’s goal of 
supporting scientific research and higher education in an effort to 
build a more security-minded engineering culture. “Our vision is that 
security will become a fundamental concern of engineers and companies 
for every relevant device, as opposed to an afterthought,” says Taubman.
 “There is a critical shortage of security engineers right now that 
needs to be addressed by higher education, but even more important is 
developing a culture of security engineering in all who graduate from 
our schools of engineering.”

— Shani Murray﻿
« ICS Honors Four Alumni at 2019 Hall of Fame CelebrationForbes: “The 100 Leading Pioneers Of AI Drug Development” (Pierre Baldi named) »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




