https://www.cs.uci.edu/nsf-continues-funding-for-asterixdb-with-2m-grant




NSF Continues Funding for AsterixDB with $2M Grant 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


NSF Continues Funding for AsterixDB with $2M Grant
September 10, 2019 

The National Science Foundation (NSF) recently provided additional support for the AsterixDB project with $2 million in funding split between UCI and UC Riverside. Professors Michael Carey and Chen Li in UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) will receive $1,140,000 for the grant, “Supporting and Sustaining Apache AsterixDB for the CISE Research Community,” while Professors Vassilis Tsotras and Ahmed Eldawy in UCR’s Bourns College of Engineering will receive $860,000.

The origins of this work go back a decade, to 2009, when a team of database researchers from three UC campuses (UCI, UCR and UCSD) first embarked on the NSF-funded ASTERIX research project. Their goal at the time was to improve database storage and queries by bringing parallel database technology to bear on the emerging new (at the time) world of “Big Data.” The result, now an Apache project, is the only open source parallel NoSQL database system available today. (More information about the history of the project is available in the ICDE conference paper, “AsterixDB Mid-Flight.”)
Apache AsterixDB is a highly scalable Big Data Management System (BDMS) that stores, indexes and manages large volumes of structured and/or semi-structured data. At the same time, it supports a full query language with the expressiveness of SQL and more. This grant continues Apache AsterixDB’s development as a resource for the NSF Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE) research community by working on a variety of enhancements, including improved text handling and query processing, additional standard-based geospatial data support, new user-defined function support for user-provided logic, and enhanced system storage and indexing capabilities.
As noted in the grant abstract, the planned improvements will “benefit the broader public by providing a general purpose foundation for extracting high-value insights from high-volume, low-value big data in areas such as public safety and health.”
— Shani Murray
« A Trio of New Distinguished Professors in ICSMultidisciplinary Graduate Training Program Advances Wildfire Prediction Research »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




