https://www.cs.uci.edu/nlp-benchmarks-ml-devops-interoperability-with-yasaman-razeghi-and-prof-sameer-singh-machine-learning-street-talk-podcast




Machine Learning Street Talk Podcast: “NLP Benchmarks & ML DevOps Interoperability With Yasaman Razeghi and Prof. Sameer Singh” 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Machine Learning Street Talk Podcast: “NLP Benchmarks & ML DevOps Interoperability With Yasaman Razeghi and Prof. Sameer Singh”
April 8, 2022 
This week we speak with Yasaman Razeghi and Prof. Sameer Singh from UC Irvine. Yasaman recently published a paper called “Impact of Pretraining Term Frequencies on Few-Shot Reasoning” where she demonstrated comprehensively that large language models only perform well on reasoning tasks because they memorize the dataset. For the first time she showed the accuracy was linearly correlated to the occurrence rate in the training corpus, something which OpenAI should have done in the first place!

We also speak with Sameer who has been a pioneering force in the area of machine learning interpretability for many years now, he created LIME with Marco Riberio and also had his hands all over the famous Checklist paper and many others.
We also get into the metric obsession in the NLP world and whether metrics are one of the principal reasons why we are failing to make any progress in NLU.
Watch the podcast on YouTube or listen to it on Anchor.



« ICS Graduate Programs in Statistics and Computer Science Among Top 20 for Public UniversitiesICS Researchers Win Best Paper Award at Eurosys 2022 »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




