https://www.cs.uci.edu/computer-science-researchers-collaborating-on-1-2m-nsf-grant-to-study-geometric-graphs




Computer Science Researchers Collaborating on $1.2M NSF Grant to Study Geometric Graphs 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Computer Science Researchers Collaborating on $1.2M NSF Grant to Study Geometric Graphs
June 16, 2022 

David Eppstein
Michael Goodrich

Michael Goodrich and David Eppstein, both Distinguished Professors of Computer Science in UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), have been awarded a National Science Foundation (NSF) grant to study algorithms for geometric graphs. They will be receiving $800,000 over the next four years for their work on this project, which is a collaboration with Computer Science Professor Stephen Kobourov of the University of Arizona. Kobourov will receive $400,000 over the next four years, bringing the total budget to $1.2 million.

As noted in the project abstract, geometric graphs are “structures that realize the relationships of a combinatorial graph — that is, a set of elements called ‘nodes’ or ‘vertices’ and a set of pairwise relationships between them, such as would be determined by a social network or road network.” They appear in a wide range of applications, including physics, data visualization, computational biology and data forensics. The goal of this work is to develop algorithms that faithfully represent the geometric realizations of such graphs.
“Our project will study geometric graphs both as inputs and as outputs,” says Goodrich. “For instance, geometric graphs are input from geographic datasets such as road networks, and they are output as data visualizations of relationships between objects arising from applications such as network analysis, combinatorics and bioinformatics.”
The researchers aim to improve methods for dealing with geometric graphs, benefiting related applications, such as data visualization or automobile navigation.
“I’m excited to work with Professors Goodrich and Kobourov on the topics of this proposal,” says Eppstein, “which range widely from theoretical problems in discrete geometry to practical problems of visualizing population density and constructing fair subdivisions of geographic regions.”
— Shani Murray
« UCI News: “UCI wins 5-year, $14M NIH grant to study brain circuits susceptible to aging, Alzheimer’s disease” (Gopi Meenakshisundaram mentioned)2022 Butterworth Product Development Competition: Back in Full Swing! »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




