https://www.ics.uci.edu/~rostami1

















Ali Rostami
                PhD. student in
Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                of University of California Irvine


                Research Interests
                
Computer Graphics
Physical Rendering
Parallel Computing
Computational Photography



                Languages
                
Farsi (native)
English (fluent)
French (familiar)




                Download my Vita.
                Contact me at [my last name] 1 @uci.edu





Research Experience






Teaching Assistance

















Work Experience






Academic Service








Course Projects










Course Project of Computer Vision In Smart Environments
        Computer Vision In Smart Environments was an optional graduate course, from electrical engineering department, by Dr Hamid Aghajan.
        The project was a joint work alongside my friend Amir Alam.
        Our Project was to detect the human foreground image in each frame from camera input and place it properly in a 3d environment,
        and let the user in the video interact with the 3d environment in real time.
        We provided a lamp in the virtual scene which the user could interact with, and change the lighting of the entire scene
        including the user himself.
        Also the 3d shadow of user's image was shown properly.
        In this project we used Unity3d game engine and the OpenCV library.





Course Project of Computer Graphics
        In this course first we had to make a 3d scene in a room consisting a window and optionally a chair and a clock using pure legacy OpenGL.
        Picture blow shows the above mentioned room. This room has no external resources and everything, including the models and textures, are computer generated using only simple features of OpenGL consisting only triangle and line draw calls.
        




        Complete source of the first phase is available in my GitHub repository.
        
        In the next phases of the project we worked with modern OpenGL, and included GLSI programming and tried to provide user interaction in the scene.
        



        Final phase included realistic and properly placing textures and implementing Phong illumination model and other CG techniques to provide a better scene.
        
        This project was made with c++.


    

Hotel Reservation System
        This project is a hotel reservations system. Users are either hotel managers or normal users. Hotel managers can add/edit/delete hotels or rooms through their account. Normal users are able to search for rooms specifying required information. I also added a recommender system using collaborative filtering algorithm.

        Project for Systems Analysis and Design course. I was teammates with A. Nejatbakhsh and S. Masoudian.

        This system is written in Python. We used django framework as web server.
    

Research in Ambient Intelligence Lab, Sharif University of Technology
        Providing an agent oriented game design approach in order to see all game objects as an agent and study and model their relations with each other and how the user can control them.
       


       We used Unity3D engine in this research project.
    

Research in Image Processing Lab, Sharif University of Technology
        Generating a dataset for image processing and virtual advertisements in sport match videos using computer graphics techniques.
        


        We used Unity3D engine in this research project.
    

Research in Software Engineering Lab, Sharif University of Technology
        Responsible for the graphics and data visualization of Cancer Simulator Software and provide a graphical model of the simulation easy to understand for the user.
        


        I used the Processing framework for this project.
    

Rotated Shadow Maps under supervision of Dr M.Jamzad
        We worked on a heuristic method based on standard shadow map technique, named rotated shadow maps, to generate excellent hard shadows. Our method utilizes some shadow maps which are generated from the same view but objects are slightly rotated around the center of light view.
        


Derp World, Advanced Programming with Java
        Derp World (or CElization) is a civilization like, strategy based game. With simple Java Swing graphics on surface but advanced software developing paradigms at core. It could be played one player with computer AI or multiplayer in LAN mode.
        In this game you control an educational based society, which improves by its knowledge and the number of its universities and researchers.
        And like any other strategy based game it includes armies which can battle the other teams units and buildings. The more knowledge you have the higher level forces you get.
        

        Complete and well commented source of the project is available in my GitHub repository


Virtual Arc Welding Simulation
        A research project for bringing Arc Welding in a virtual simulation.
        I was in charge of the computer science research and development of this project working with people with mechanical engineering background.
        In this simulation the user holds a normal welding electrode holder and using the data from the infrared camera of leap motion the position of the electorate is tracked and user can perform dynamic welding in a virtual scene.
        

        Project done with Unity3D Engine and Leap Motion.
        


Kaidan
        Kaidan is an asymmetric online multiplayer horror game and is under active development. It aims to create a context in which a human player scares other human players.
        

        My role in this project was a programmer. website development was of my responsibilities in this project, our website contains a complicated system of storytelling called, "The Kaidan System", which was made after a huge amount of time for design and development.
        

        Visit our website.






Cinemas of India iOS Application
        An iOS indian movie marketplace developed for both iPad and iPhone. Users can buy movies through this application and watch movies in their iOS device.
        
        This application was ordered by an Indian Company. My friend Amin Nejatbakhsh and I worked on this project together.
        
        It was developed in Objective-C using Cocoa framework.

    

Android Video Game, Chapar Chost
        Chapar Chost is one of my first games, made with java and libDGX library.
        It's a fun and creative runner game. Other than programming and design, all the artworks, musics and sounds are also my own job.
        The apk could be accessed via this link.
        
        This game can be played on android devices with accelerometer technology.
        


WebGL Workshop
        This is an upcoming event.
        I am going to have a workshop on Computer Graphics programming with WebGL at Sharif University of Technology March 2016.
        The workshop will be held by ACM SIGGRAPH Tehran chapter. There is also a talk from Amirhossein Erfani, Chairman of Tehran SIGGRAPH chapter, included in this program about the Computer Graphics community and career path.
        


ACM-ICPC Asia Region
        Member of the 2015 and 2014 ACM-ICPC Asia Region Technical Staff.
        Also member of the ACM-ICPC Challenge, GOLD HUNTERS, and GOLD HUNTERS II, development and design team.
        


Sharif AI Challenge
        Member of the Sharif University of Technology first Sharif AI Challenge whcih was held internationally February 2016.
        This challenge was possible by hard work of many students at Sharif University of Technology.
        
        I was the head of Computer Graphics Team of the challenge, responsible for the Web Based Client Side graphical UI of the game which.
        Working with programmers and artists.
        I was also in the core team of designing the 2016 challenge.
        
        Codeforces has wrote about us here.
        



            Before AI Challenge, for 7 years Sharif has held the "Java Challenge" AI competitions.
            I was also a member of Java Challenge 2015 and I developed a 3d webGL UI for the game.
            We changed the name for two reasons this year, first from 2015, it wasn't just java anymore as we had support for CPP and Python, second because for the first time we went international.
        


        This is a screenshot from the 3d webGL UI for 2015 Java Challenge, done by me.
    




