https://www.ics.uci.edu/employment



Employment @ Donald Bren School of ICS














Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Employment


Employment

The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) at the University of California, Irvine (UCI) is seeking exceptional candidates for various faculty positions. A detailed description of each position, and application instructions, can be found on the UCI's Academic Personnel Recruit website.
ICS is comprised of three departments (Computer Science, Informatics, and Statistics), and it is one of only five computing-focused schools among the Association of American Universities (AAU) members. The U.S. News and World Report 2017 Best Global Universities ranking identifies UCI as a top 50 university in computer science and one of the top 15 universities for computer science in the United States. The School’s 70+ faculty members include 1 NAE Member, 14 ACM Fellows, 9 IEEE Fellows, 7 AAAS Fellows and many other national award winners.
The University of California, Irvine is ranked as a top ten public university by U.S. News and World Report, and has been identified by the New York Times as No. 1 among U.S. universities that do the most for low-income students. UCI has done what no other school has done—rank among Sierra’s Top 10 most sustainable colleges for eight years in a row. UCI is located in Orange County, 4 miles from the Pacific Ocean and 45 miles south of Los Angeles. Irvine is one of the safest communities in the U.S. and offers a very pleasant year-round climate, numerous recreational and cultural opportunities, and one of the highest-ranked public school systems in the nation.
The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy.
 

Student employmentPlease visit Handshake to browse current student opportunities. 




More employment

Endowed Bren Chairs
Faculty Positions
Lecturer Positions
Research Positions
Student/alumni job board
Staff Positions









Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











