http://www.ics.uci.edu/~golson







Making Distance Matter Less































































Skip to content





 
Making Distance Matter Less


Menu
Gary M. Olson
Publications

Authored Books
Edited Books
Peer Reviewed Journal Articles
Peer Reviewed Book Chapters
Peer Reviewed Conference Proceedings — Papers
Peer Reviewed Conference Proceedings – Extended Abstracts
Invited Articles
Edited Conference Proceedings
Other Publications
Book Reviews


Gary’s Bookshelf

History and Biography
The Arts and Literature
Food and Drink
Books about Books
HCI and CSCW
Sports
Science and Technology
Travel, Places
Current Events
Railways
Religion
Fiction
Health and Wellness


Vita
The Science of Collaboratories
Virtual Teams
Collaboration Success Wizard
DocuViz
Collective Intelligence
 






Gary M. Olson 

Gary M. Olson retired in December 2016. He previously was the Donald Bren Professor of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine, and before that, the Paul M. Fitts Professor of Human-Computer Interaction at the University of Michigan. He is currently Emeritus Professor at both UCI and the University of Michigan.
His research spanned the fields of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) and Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW), with particular interests in collaborative technologies and their role in supporting long-distance work. A recent review of this research was published as Working Together Apart (Morgan & Claypool, 2014). He is also interested in cognition, problem-solving, reasoning, and information visualization. He continues to consult on matters pertaining to his research interests.
Olson is a Fellow of the Association of Computing Machinery, the Association for Psychological Science, and the American Psychological Association. In 2003, he was elected to the CHI Academy, and in 2006 he received the CHI Lifetime Achievement Award along with his wife, Dr. Judith S. Olson. In 2016 he received the CHI Lifetime Service Award.
Besides his professional work, he has serious interests in reading, travel, cooking, baseball, and the Swiss railways. These interests are reflected in Gary’s Bookshelf in this web site.









Blog at WordPress.com.














Follow


Following







				garymolson.com			









 

												Sign me up											




											Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now. 






 





				garymolson.com			



 Customize




Follow


Following


Sign up
Log in
Copy shortlink
Report this content


											View post in Reader										


Manage subscriptions

Collapse this bar









 




















































































Loading Comments...



 


Write a Comment...




Email (Required)



Name (Required)



Website







































 




