https://www.cs.uci.edu/marco-levorato-to-give-keynote-at-ieee-healthcom




Marco Levorato to Give Keynote at IEEE Healthcom 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Marco Levorato to Give Keynote at IEEE Healthcom
August 4, 2022 

Late October, instead of seeing Computer Science Professor Marco Levorato in UCI’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), you’ll find him in Genoa, Italy. On Oct. 18, 2022, he will be giving a keynote talk at IEEE Healthcom, a premiere IEEE conference on e-health networking, application and services.

“I am truly honored and excited by the opportunity to give the keynote speech at IEEE Healthcom 2022, a flagship IEEE conference in the area of mobile healthcare,” says Levorato. His keynote, “Personalized Stress Management for Pregnant Women from Underserved Communities,” will cover insights from the UNITE project, a multidisciplinary effort exploring how to integrate traditional maternal care with low-cost Internet of Things (IoT)-based monitoring and intervention.
“I will discuss our effort and outcomes toward the development of a system for real-time clinical-level monitoring and intervention in everyday settings — an objective that presents several technical challenges,” says Levorato. “The goal of the system is to improve the self-management of pregnant women from underserved communities with limited access to maternal care — for instance, by monitoring and improving stress patterns.”
Levorato will discuss the multitiered edge cloud the UNITE team has built to collect signals from wearable and mobile sensors, as well as techniques deployed to support information flow and real-time analysis despite computing constraints. He also plans to illustrate the need for personalized algorithms, which require context-aware approaches to real-time data collection.
More information about the UNITE project is online, outlining the approaches and technologies being investigated to better support underserved mothers in Orange County, California.
— Shani Murray
« Cutting-Edge Work in Topological Network Alignment by Wayne Hayes and StudentsMichael Franz Earns Distinguished Professor Title »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




