https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-feels-like-home-for-navy-veteran-and-computer-science-major-timothy-tomas




UCI Feels Like Home for Navy Veteran and Computer Science Major Timothy Tomas 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI Feels Like Home for Navy Veteran and Computer Science Major Timothy Tomas
November 9, 2018 UCI’s Veteran Services Center (VSC) aims to provide veterans with the “world-class benefits and services they have earned — and to do so by adhering to the highest standards of compassion, commitment, excellence, professionalism, integrity, accountability, and stewardship.” According to VSC director Adelí Durón, who works to support UCI’s 167 veteran students (including both active duty and reservists) and their families, 33 veterans are in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS).
One such veteran is computer science major Timothy Tomas, who served in the United States Navy as a Fire Controlman for close to six years, traveling all over the East Pacific Region. “I worked on the ships’ self-defense system networks, along with other top-secret equipment that helped our fleet carry out missions through our deployments.”

Now in his junior year, Tomas is working toward his B.S. in computer science, but his dedication to service continues. “I look forward to transferring my skills with a company that gives back to the community.” Similarly, his Veterans Day plans include heading down to San Diego to spend time with family as well as “doing some volunteer work.”
Originally from San Diego, Tomas notes that he had “some good schools to choose from, but UCI caught my attention because of the noteworthy achievements of its students and faculty.” Housing was another big consideration. “UCI was the only UC that offered guaranteed housing for veterans.” Content with his decision to attend UCI, he says “the atmosphere here feels like home.”
If you’d like to learn more about Tomas or other veterans here at UCI, head over to the VSC, located on the third floor of the Student Center. “I encourage everyone to come down to the VSC,” says Tomas. “We love to connect with the student body.”
— Shani Murray
« Professor Levorato’s DARPA Project Aims to Strengthen Autonomous Drone SystemsMultidepartmental Collaboration on Detecting Code Clones Leads to Distinguished Paper Award »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




