http://www.ics.uci.edu/~feldman/lec8F00.html




lec8F00.doc


Lecture Eight--ICS 131--Fall 00--19 Oct 00

Recap  on Lecture Seven--Privacy

Privacy problems
	Lots of people collecting information on us
		•Web sites collect information on users
		•Government agencies collect info on people and organizations
		e.g., IRS, DMV, state tax agencies, Carnivore
		•Financial institutions collect info on users
	What is being done with the information?
		•Using it, e.g., Amazon, governments
		 •selling or giving  info to others
			e.g., state gov'ts selling DMV info
	Security of the information
 
Privacy solutions
	Self-regulation, market
	User actions
		•delete cookies
		•exercise rights under privacy policies
		•don't disclose
		•pay cash, don't use club cards
	Government actions
		•FTC proposals--Model behavior
			"fair information practices"
 notice, choice, access, and security."
		•Bills pending in Washington
		•Can we trust the government in this area
Read UCI privacy policy on student records®
 www.abs.uci.edu/depts/mailrec/priv-stu.html

Return of pen--Installment Two
 
 
Internet anonymity
AK Steel case,
Schwartz, John.  Corporate case in Ohio raises questions on internet anonymity, NY Times, 17 Oct, C1, C4 ®
	Middle America.
	Jane Doe characterizes the boss as litigious
	Boss wants to know who Jane Doe is
	Defense says wait until prove libel
	Supreme Ct says freedom of speech includes anonymous statements
		Can't yell "fire" in a crowded theatre
	Some background on AK Steel
		Suing USWA on RICO grounds
		Combat fatigues and combat boots--war
		So USWA has offered support to Jane Doe
Florida case--Hvide Marine
Dunn, Ashley, and Kaplan, Karen.  2 Firms ordered to identify internet message posters, LA Times, 17 Oct 00, C5®
	Florida court has issued an order to AOL and Yahoo
	ACLU tried to protect identity of eight anonymous individuals
How will this play out?
	Remember not to do it from company hardware
--------------------------------
Lecture Eight--Electronic Commerce--Retail
	Future of e-tailing--BW
	Responsibility of auction sites--E-Bay, Yahoo
	Responsibility of e-tailers--Buy.com
	New ideas--Land's End, Raytheon
 
 
Future of e-tailing--BW

 
Berman, Dennis K., and Green, Heather.  Cliff-hanger Christmas.
BusinessWeek E.BIZ, 23 Oct 00, EB 30-EB 38®
Great Internet Shakeout
	once-limitless venture capital running out, stock prices down
	Goldman, Sachs "...predicts at least 15 of 28 public e-tailers
		will run out of money by the end of next year."
	will e-tailing pure plays survive on their own?
	traditional merchants having problems with on-line units
New model
	"Both pure e-tailers and traditional retailers 
	need to tap the expertise of the other
	 to make online selling work."
	Example:  Toy 'R' Us and Amazon

	e-tailing should double this season
	"consumers love it"
	bricks and clicks
	get customer to merchandise quickly, 
get merchandise to customers quickly
	cut costs of getting customers/business
	Example number two:  British grocer Tesco

	Beck, Ernest.  British grocer Tesco thrives filling web orders 
	from its stores' aisles.  WSJ, 16 Oct 00, B1, B13®
	US Counterparts (Webvan, Peapod) building automated
	warehouses while Tesco operates simpler, cheaper
	Tesco is largest grocer in UK, distances shorter
	another example of "bricks and clicks" working together
 
Mix it up
	sending catalogs
	mix of products
	higher profit products
	sell ads
Service counts
	multi-channel customers buy more, e.g., Eddie Bauer
	some pure plays may make it if they can get volume up
 
Sounds like Brown and Duguid to JF
What are responsibilities of Web site?

Associated Press.  Yahoo purchases to be insured against fraud.
LA Times, 16 Oct 00, C8®
Lloyds of London,
auction site
shopping site
Guernsey, Lisa.  EBay faces suit on sale of fake goods.
NY Times, 16 Oct 00, C6®
CA judge has allowed six people to proceed with a law suit
against eBay.
sports memorabilia fakes
Can eBay be responsible?
Should eBay be responsible?
auctioneer or forum?
-----------------------------------
What if web site makes a pricing error?

Fields, Robin. Buy.com will pay $575,000 to settle bait-and-switch suit.
LA Times, 18 Oct 00, C3®
What is "...online stores' obligations  to consumers when
pricing errors occur on Web sites"
"Last February, Buy.com's Web site mistakenly listed the Hitachi SuperScan 753 on sale for $164.50 when, at the time, the product retailed for $588.  Orders flooded in.  Buy.copm honored the price for the 143 monitors it had in stock but canceled thousands of other orders."
Why is it different than a bricks and mortar pricing error?
------------------------------------
Developments in e-tailing

Tedeschi, Bob.  E-Commerce Report:  Large companies try to find ways to spread Internet retailing throughout their operations, 
NY Times, 16 Oct 00, C14(O)
Raytheon developing software that other divisions might use
Might sell it to other organizations
Examples:
	Queen supply--plastic bags
	Kibbutz--develops system for bakery
-------------------------
Quick, Rebecca. Getting the Right Fit--Hips and All.  WSJ, 18 Oct 00,
B1, B4(O)
Big obstacle to on-line clothing sales: 
 "How can you tell if something fits if you can't try it on."
So Lands' End has this trailer
Computer scan
Unhappy reporter
Review
	Bricks and clicks--similarity to Brown and Duguid
	Responsibility of web sites to protect consumer against fraud
	Responsibility of web sites on pricing errors
	"New" wrinkles in e-tailing
 
Logistics
Associated Press.  University to require students to take online courses,
LA Times, 16 Oct 00, C11 [www.fdu.edu](O)
Berry, Kate.  One less tax-time headache:  
	software to download data, NY Times, 16 Oct 00, C2(O)
Answers to Question 2 on Quiz 2
 
Week Five Schedule 
	Discussions (noon on Tuesday) (one on Thursday)
	Lectures--Monday and Friday
	Office hours--wed
 

