http://riscit.ics.uci.edu





RiSCIT: The Center for Research in Sustainability, Collapse-Preparedness and Information Technology













Toggle navigation




RiSCIT



Events
Projects
People






LUCI


Social Code


TechDec




















The Center for Research in Sustainability, Collapse-Preparedness & Information Technology







Meeting Needs with Reduced Resources

In his keynote address at a 2012 NSF-funded National Academies symposium, John Holdren, then Director of the US Office of Science and Technology Policy and chief science advisor to the nation, spoke at length about climate change, and described a need for both mitigation – the reduction of the magnitude of change – and adaptation – the mobilization of responses to change. Holdren advocated for the development of technology that focuses on "meeting human needs [and] wants at lower cost with reduced use of material resources [and] reduced environmental impact." The Center for Research in Sustainability, Collapse-Preparedness & Information Technology (RiSCIT) seeks to engage with this challenge, in part due to the potential for "greening through IT" – that is, making civilizations more environmentally sustainable via IT interventions and in part as means of preparing for civilizational collapse. The goal of RiSCIT is to provide a central focus for research on the role of informatics and computing in supporting the transition to sustainability and addressing the potential to prepare for civilization-scale collapse. Since 2015, RiSCIT has hosted LIMITS—the annual Workshop on Computing within Limits—to foster discussion on the impact of present and future ecological, material, energetic, and societal limits on computing, and also as a means of growing the community of researchers exploring such issues.


					






Research
Our members engage in cutting edge research on topics relating to sustainability and collapse.





Teaching
We teach courses and supervise independent study students related to the center's research focuses.





Living
We compost, vermicompost, grow food, mine bitcoin, travel less, and generally try to "walk the walk".








Current Events



RiSCIT is sponsoring the 2017 ACM Workshop on Computing within Limits (LIMITS 2017). Details here.












Past Events



RiSCIT hosted the LIMITS
									2015 Public Discussion on Computing with
									Limits at the UCI University Club
									Library in conjuction with the Newkirk
									Center for Science & Society on 3
									December, 2015. Details here.









RiSCIT hosted LIMITS 2015 at UCI on June
									15-16, 2015. Details here.












RiSCIT was pleased to host anthropologist, historian and author Joseph Tainter on February 14th, 2014 in DBH 6011. Details here.











Projects

‹







Plant Guild Composer






Transition Towns






SE 4 Sustainability






Bitcoin





›


People

‹








Debra Richardson







Bill Tomlinson







Don Patterson







Bonnie Nardi







Paul Dourish







Eli Bozorgzadeh







Geof Bowker







Eric Mjolsness







Nalini Venkatasubramanian







Padhraic  Smyth







Walt Scacchi







Katie Pine





›





















