https://www.cs.uci.edu/ics-alumnus-nithin-jillas-nonprofit-inspires-students-to-love-stem




ICS Alumnus Nithin Jilla’s Nonprofit Inspires Students to Love STEM 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


ICS Alumnus Nithin Jilla’s Nonprofit Inspires Students to Love STEM
May 15, 2019 
Middle school students found ways
to escape ghosts in The Silent Forest, battle monsters in Pyramid Escape, and avoid
balloon-popping birds in Piggy Pop — the top three mobile app games at a 2018
AppJam+ showcase.
But the students weren’t merely playing the games — they had developed them through
the AppJam+
program, part of the Dreams for Schools organization founded by UCI alumnus Nithin Jilla ’13. “The whole experience is a crash course
in mobile app development and computer coding, designed to get kids excited
about STEM, specifically computer science,” says Jilla. “In creating their own
mobile app video games, students are able to create something they see in their
everyday lives and relate it back to how versatile knowledge in STEM can be.”

Jilla and his team (also UCI alumni) are now preparing for the Spring 2019 AppJamboree events, a series of four showcases highlighting student work from the latest 10-week program. Teams of up to five middle school students will be presenting their apps, which they built after learning the basics of coding from college mentors. With a total of 111 college students mentoring more than 500 students from 22 schools, this 2019 Spring cohort will be the largest one yet.
Making STEM Approachable and Accessible
It all started back in 2012 with just 43 students. At the time, Jilla was a
third-year computer science major in the Donald Bren School of Information and
Computer Sciences (ICS). Through his work on the ICS
Student Council,
he had helped develop events like UCI’s Med AppJam to expose fellow students to mobile app
development. So when the council was challenged with addressing
gaps in STEM education in the K-12 space, Jilla was prepared. Working with
Assistant Professor of Computer Science Shannon Alfaro and
with support from the Samueli Foundation, he and his team
developed the first iteration of the AppJam+ middle school outreach
program.
“During the first year, I was not only involved in developing it,
but I also played the role of a mentor and taught at the Tiger Woods Learning
Center in Anaheim,” says Jilla. “I enjoyed seeing the students be inspired and
excited about computer science.”
For the first few years, AppJam+ was a project incubated under the
OC STEM
initiative and UCI, but as it grew, “we began to forge our own
vision with Dreams for Schools,” explains Jilla. In 2016, Dreams for Schools
became a 501c3 nonprofit organization focused on making STEM “approachable and accessible for all,” with AppJam+
as its main outreach program.
Mentoring from ICS Students
The focus on mobile app development captures student interest, but another
critical element is the college-age instructors. “Our mentorship model and ultimately the mentors are the
lifeblood of the AppJam+ program,” says Jilla. Working with local universities,
including UCI, the program recruits
students from majors such as ICS and engineering to serve as AppJam+
mentors. “By sharing their expertise and experiences they’ve garnered through
their time at UCI, they are giving the students they mentor a better picture of
possible paths they can take in the future.”
UCI computer science major Jasmine Delgado works with students at Kraemer Middle School during the
Fall 2018 AppJam+ program.
One such mentor is second-year computer science
major Chase Carnaroli, who started coding in middle school after seeing a “Learn to
Code” campaign, which inspired him to take the free Khan Academy computer
science course. After completing the online training, he was
hooked on programing. Years later, when he learned about AppJam+ during his
freshman year of college, he thought it was a fantastic opportunity.
“When I was in middle school, there weren’t any
programs like AppJam+. I had to learn everything on my own through various
online tutorials,” he says. Now, as an AppJam+ mentor, he’s helping to make
computer science more accessible to middle school students. “The best part about AppJam+ is
that moment of excitement on the students’ faces whenever they finally get a
new piece of code to work,” he says. “As a mentor, it’s such a great feeling to
see your students succeed and feel empowered by their new programming
abilities.”
He adds that the experience has taught him how to be a
more effective communicator. “Being able to break down a topic into a simple
and easy-to-understand manner is a skill that directly translates to working
with other groups — whether it be for class projects or with co-workers,” he
explains. “It’s amazing what you can learn while teaching others!”
Jilla agrees that AppJam+
learning is a two-way street. “Both our college mentors and our enrolled middle
school students gain technical experience creating apps and develop 21st
century life skills such as creativity, critical thinking, technical literacy,
communication and collaboration.”
In fact, Carnaroli credits the
experience with helping him earn a summer internship as a software engineer at
Khan Academy. “I am thrilled for the opportunity to work at the company that
originally inspired me to pursue a career in computer science,” he says. “There’s
no doubt in my mind that the experience I gained from working with AppJam+
helped me land an internship with one of the most impactful education
nonprofits in the world.”
Another student who has mentored for the program
is Srivarsha Nandula, an ICS major graduating this spring. “The best part about
mentoring the students is watching their excitement at the showcase when all of
their hard work comes to life,” she says. Based on feedback from at least one
student, it seems Nandula’s instruction ignited an interest that will continue well
beyond the 10-week program. “One of my students [told] me how she saw herself in the future
combining her interest in fashion with her newfound knowledge of CS to launch
an app that would help people in fashion,” says Nandula, who recently accepted
a full-time job as a program manager at Microsoft. “She thanked me for
inspiring her, and it made me so proud to hear that I was able to make such a
strong and positive influence in her life.”
As Jilla stresses, these mentors
serve as the “foundation” for their teams. “Ultimately, they are the champions
who give these kids the confidence to rise up to the seemingly daunting task of
developing a mobile app.”
Programming the Future
AppJam+ is now a regional program in both Orange County and Riverside, with
plans to further expand across Southern California. In February, Dreams
for Schools received a M>PWR
Initiative grant from the Mitsubishi Electric America Foundation, which
supports innovative approaches to help youth
with disabilities gain exposure to STEAM careers through hands-on experiences. Through
this partnership, Dreams for Schools is currently piloting an AppJam+ program
specifically for youth with disabilities and learning differences at two schools.
This is just part of the Dreams for Schools vision of “programming the future”
by empowering students and educators with hands-on learning opportunities.
“With technology where it’s at
today, virtually all jobs require some sort of STEM knowledge, specifically
technical knowledge,” says Jilla. According to a
survey conducted last year, there is a serious shortage of STEM workers in
the U.S., creating a growing demand for engaging programs like AppJam+.
“Even if students ultimately
don’t decide to enter into a STEM-focused career, STEM engagement provides the
opportunity for kids to develop important soft skills like creativity,
intellectual curiosity and problem solving.” It was through his own study of
computer science at UCI that Jilla says he learned “the importance of problem
solving and iterative processes, which have played a key role in how we approach
this program — evolving it every season — and focusing on helping solve the
larger challenge of integrating computer science education into STEM education
early.”
— Shani Murray
« Upcoming Symposium on Cutting-Edge AI & Biomedicine ResearchICS Students Win Best Web App at HackSC »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




