http://www.ics.uci.edu/~fielding

Roy T. Fielding








Roy T. Fielding
Chief Scientist,
Day Software
Co-founder and member,
The Apache Software Foundation
Ph.D.,
Information and Computer Science,
UC Irvine

E-Mail: fielding@gbiv.com, roy.fielding@day.com, fielding@apache.org
Office: Irvine, California, Fax: +1 (949) 679-2972
Meet me at ApacheCon
The personal website of Roy T. Fielding







Research Projects
I finished my doctorate within the
Software Research Group here
at UCI.  Much of my work was done
under the auspices of the Hyperware project
and collaborations with industry as part of the
Institute for Software Research.
My research interests include
global software engineering environments,
software design, software architecture for network-based applications,
and application-level protocol design.
Richard N. Taylor was my advisor and dissertation
committee chair.

I have been actively involved in the World Wide Web project since
1993.  I set up the original UCI-ICS
WWW server and created several WWW software
packages,
and in early 1994 became involved in the effort to specify and improve the WWW
infrastructure through the IETF working
groups on URI, HTTP,
and HTML
(the set of protocols that were used to retrieve and view this document).

I also co-founded the Apache
HTTP Server Project and on the board of directors of
The Apache Software Foundation.
We created the Apache HTTP server that currently dominates the general-purpose
server market with over 60% of
the public
Internet websites using our software.  Apache is my favorite example of
the power of global collaboration for the creation of software.

My dissertation,
Architectural Styles and
the Design of Network-based Software Architectures, focused on
the rationale behind the design of the modern Web architecture and how it
differs from other architectural styles.



Papers, Talks, and Specs

Curriculum Vitae and Publications
Presentations and Slides
Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI):
Generic
    Syntax (RFC 2396) and
    Relative URL
    (RFC 1808)
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP):

    HTTP/1.1 (RFC 2616
   [pdf, 
    html], 
    RFC 2145, and
    RFC 2068) and
    HTTP/1.0 (RFC 1945)
Internet Engineering Taskforce (IETF) Web-related Archives
  
URI Working Group
HTTP Working Group
HTML Working Group
WebDAV Working Group


Open-Source Software

Apache
The best general-purpose HTTP server that money can't buy.

libwww-ada95
A library of Ada95 packages that provides a start for a simple
    programming interface to the World Wide Web.  Unfortunately, we only
    had the time and resources to finish the first part: the
    Onions network streams library.

libwww-perl
A library of Perl4 packages which provides a simple and consistent
    programming interface to the World Wide Web.  This library is being
    developed as a collaborative effort to assist the further development
    of useful WWW clients and tools.

MOMspider
A web robot for providing multi-owner maintenance of 
    distributed hypertext infostructures.

wwwstat
A package for analyzing httpd server access logs and providing
    summary statistics in HTML format.





Life Story

What, you're still reading this?  According to most hypertext research,
you should have become bored by now and moved on to to another page.
Well, this is for those who are extra curious (or just have nothing better
to do).

My background is a bit odd: I was conceived in 
New Zealand and born in
South Laguna,
California. 
Although most of my schooling has been in the U.S., I was taught how
to read during a school term in 
Auckland.
My 
father is an emeritus professor in 
Social Sciences here at UC Irvine,
which is why I have been raised a Yank.  I was born in September 1965,
during the first week of classes of the year UCI was established, so you
might say that the two of us grew up together (except for the three years
I spent studying Physics and International Politics at
Reed College).  I am part 
Maori,
Kiwi,
Yank, Irish, Scottish, British, and California beach bum.  Like I
said, a bit odd.


Most of the rest can be seen in my vita.

I was a Visiting Scholar at MIT/LCS during the summer of 1995, working with
Tim Berners-Lee and the World Wide Web
Consortium (W3C).  You can also see my
W3C Home.


I was
named by MIT Technology Review
as one of the
TR100: The top 100 young innovators
for 1999. "The 100 young visionaries who our editors and a distinguished
Panel of Judges feel have the greatest potential for technological innovation
in the 21st century."  Gee, no pressure there.

The Association of Computing Machinery
recently awarded the 1999
ACM Software System Award to The Apache Group for the Apache HTTP Server.
I talked a bit about that honor in
an
interview with LinuxWorld.

On a more local note, I was named by the UCI Alumni Association as the
Outstanding Graduate Student of 2000.

Other Interests

I like playing games -- especially non-betting card games (Bridge,
Hearts, etc.) and obscure board games (british rails, naval war, etc.).
I also like playing basketball, softball, football and going fishing.
Mind you, I haven't had time to do any of these things since I started
messing with the Web.

Quotations

      What is life?  It is the flash of a firefly in the night.
      It is the breath of a buffalo in the wintertime.
      It is the little shadow which runs across the grass
      and loses itself in the sunset.
--- Crowfoot's last words (1890), Blackfoot warrior and orator.



      To most readers it will be easy, after reading this tale, to accept
      Rover's theory that Man is set up deliberately as the antithesis of
      everything the Dogs stand for, a sort of mythical straw-man, a
      sociological fable.

      This is underlined by the recurring evidence of Man's aimlessness,
      his constant running hither and yon, his grasping at a way of life
      which constantly eludes him, possibly because he never knows exactly
      what he wants.
--- Clifford D. Simak, "City" [Notes on the Fifth Tale], 1952.



    Life is a distributed object system.  However, communication among
    humans is a distributed hypermedia system, where the mind's intellect,
    voice+gestures, eyes+ears, and imagination are all components.
--- Roy T. Fielding, 1998.



Information and Computer Science,
University of California, Irvine
CA 92697-3425

Last modified: 08 Dec 2003


