https://www.cs.uci.edu/charless-fowlkes-named-chancellors-fellow




Charless Fowlkes Named Chancellor’s Fellow 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Charless Fowlkes Named Chancellor’s Fellow
April 9, 2019 

Computer Science Professor Charless Fowlkes was recently named Chancellor’s Fellow, effective July 1, 2019, through June 30, 2022. The title recognizes his outstanding record in research, teaching, mentoring and service. Chancellor’s Fellows are “faculty with tenure whose recent achievements in scholarship evidence extraordinary promise for world-class contributions to knowledge, and whose pattern of contributions evidences strong trajectory to distinction.” As part of this recognition, Fowlkes will receive $25,000 annually to support his research efforts during the three-year appointment.

Fowlkes studies computational vision, with applications in biomedical research, neuroscience and forensic science. In 2015, he received the prestigious Helmholtz Prize for his 2001 seminal work and its significant impact on the field of computer vision. His work has been funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF), National Institutes of Health (NIH) and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), among others.
“I’m delighted to be receiving this title,” says Fowlkes. “This award will help further my group’s research efforts in developing computer vision systems that can recognize and reason about the visual content of images and video.”
— Shani Murray…
« ﻿Singh, Thornton Recognized for Excellence in Undergraduate TeachingCyber@UCI: Club’s Growing Cybersecurity Community Develops Third-Place Team »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




