http://www.ics.uci.edu/computerscience




Department of Computer Science - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences – Department of Computer Science - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences




 






































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates










Levorato Receives NSF Grant for Automated Design Solutions for Real-Time Computing










4 ICS Professors Among 7 UCI Researchers Named AAAS Fellows










Qi Alfred Chen Receives NSF CAREER Award for AI Security Research










Computer Science Ph.D. Student Vikram Narayanan Receives IBM Fellowship











The Department of Computer Science is internationally recognized as a unique group of faculty, visiting researchers, students and educational programs, which provide a world-class research environment that goes well beyond the core areas of computer science. Our curricula, faculty and research areas focus on an array of topics, including algorithms and complexity; artificial intelligence and machine learning; biomedical informatics and computational biology; computer architecture and design; computer graphics and visualization; computer vision; databases and data mining; embedded systems; medical informatics; multimedia computing; networks and distributed systems; operating systems; programming languages and systems; scientific and numerical computing; security, privacy and cryptography; and software engineering.

Graduate Admissions
UCI Computer Science M.S. and Ph.D. programs have made the GRE scores optional for Fall ’21 applicants. Applicants with current/valid GRE scores are encouraged to submit them. However, all applicants — including those who have not taken the GRE or whose GRE scores have expired — are advised to submit additional material that complements their overall application. Examples include, but are not limited to: capstone projects, design portfolios, links to GitHub profile, research papers submitted and/or published, links to internship projects as well as patents and patent applications.


Faculty Recruitment
UCI’s Department of Computer Science is seeking exceptional candidates for multiple tenured/tenure-track Professor positions and part-time lecturer positions. A detailed description of each position, and application instructions, can be found here.


Job Opportunities
For a listing of current academic positions open in the Computer Science Department, visit the Academic Recruitment website.

Recruitment Alert: ICS is looking for qualified midcareer professors, such as advanced assistant professors or tenured associate to early full professors, as part of our Midcareer Professor Hiring Initiative. Apply Online!
The CS department is inviting applications for a “Professor of Teaching in Computer Science” faculty position with security of employment. This position parallels the tenure track faculty research series starting in academic year 2017-2018.




Distinguished Lecture Series
Join us in Donald Bren Hall 6011 for this free lecture series, which is sponsored by the Department of Computer Science. more information »
May 12, 2017Renée J. Miller
Professor of Computer Science, UNiversity of Toronto
Donald Bren Hall, Room 6011
11:00am – 12:00pm“Evaluating Data Integration and Data Curation Systems”
Abstract/Bio



Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 





