https://cml.ics.uci.edu/tag/news





news | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems





























Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
Bren School of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine






Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
University of California, Irvine


Menu
Skip to content
Home
About CML

About us
News
Contact Us


People

Faculty
Alumni


Events & Seminars

AI/ML Seminar Series
AI/ML Seminar Live Stream
CML Distinguished Speakers
ML Reading Group


Education & Resources

Courses
Books


UCI Machine Learning Archive
Sponsors & Funding
Subscribe to CML List
 





					Tag: news 





Baldi, Kobsa, Mark receive Google Faculty Research Awards Standard 

Three ICS professors have received a Google Faculty Research Award as part of Google’s biannual open call for proposals in computer science, engineering and related fields. Computer science Chancellor’s Professor Pierre Baldi, informatics and computer science professor Alfred Kobsa and informatics professor Gloria Mark join several other ICS faculty who have received the award in recent years. Read more


September 1, 2014






Smyth gives keynote talk at top artificial intelligence conference Standard 

Professor Padhraic Smyth gave an invited keynote talk at the recent AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-14). Held July 27-31 in Quebec City, Canada, the conference promotes research in artificial intelligence and scientific exchange among AI researchers, practitioners, scientists and engineers in affiliated disciplines.  Read more


August 2, 2014






‘Deep learning’ makes search for exotic particles easier Standard 

UCI researchers develop computing techniques that could aid hunt for Higgs bosons. Fully automated .deep learning. by computers greatly improves the odds of discovering particles such as the Higgs boson, beating even veteran physicists. abilities, according to findings by UC Irvine researchers published today in the journal Nature Communications.  Read more


August 1, 2014






Two Center Members Elected as ACM Fellows Standard 

The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), the world’s largest educational and scientific computing society, has announced two faculty members have earned prestigious honors. Computer science professors Rina Dechter and Padhraic Smyth have been named 2013 ACM Fellows. Read more


February 3, 2014






Carey and Li receive $1.1 million in funding for AsterixDB research Standard 

Professors Michael Carey and Chen Li have received $750,000 from the National Science Foundation and nearly $400,000 from corporations . including Google, Oracle and HTC . to continue the development of their Big Data system, AsterixDB. Read more 


February 2, 2014






ICS grad students take second place in sbv IMPROVER competition Standard 

Peter Sadowski and Michael Zeller, both Ph.D. students with the Department of Computer Science, earned a second-place finish in an international data-mining competition. The honor was given by sbv IMPROVER, a collaborative project designed to enable scientists to learn about and contribute to the development of a new crowdsourcing method for verification of scientific data and results. Read more


February 1, 2014






CML Faculty Member Alex Ihler receives NSF CAREER Award Standard 

Alexander Ihler, associate professor of computer science, has been awarded the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award for his project, .Estimation and Decisions in Graphical Models.. Ihler will receive $442,000 over five years for his CAREER project, which seeks to develop a new framework for exact and approximate methods for advanced computational reasoning problems. It extends the abilities of intelligent systems to reasoning and decision-making under uncertainty, and it applies and tests these methods on a variety of application domains, including sensor networks and computer vision. Read more


August 4, 2013






Microsoft Faculty Fellowship awarded to CML Faculty Anima Anandkumar Standard 

Anima Anandkumar has been awarded a 2013 Microsoft Research Faculty Fellowship. An assistant professor of electrical engineering and computer science at UC Irvine’s The Henry Samueli School of Engineering, Anandkumar is one of seven from around the world to receive this support. Read more


August 3, 2013






Professor Pierre Baldi wins ICSB Award Standard 

The International Society for Computational Biology has selected Chancellor’s Professor Pierre Baldi as an ISCB Fellow.  The ISCB Fellows program honors members who have distinguished themselves through outstanding contributions to the fields of computational biology and bioinformatics. The 2013 fellows were recognized at the Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology conference, held July 21-23 in Berlin. Read more


August 2, 2013






Professor Padhraic Smyth serves as Program Chair for UAI 2013 Conference Standard 

Computer science professor Padhraic Smyth served as program chair for the 29th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI 2013), held July 11-15 in Bellevue, Wash. Sponsored by Microsoft Research, Google, Facebook, Amazon, Toyota and IBM, UAI is the leading international conference on the use of probabilistic models and algorithms in artificial intelligence and machine learning. More than 240 papers were submitted to the conference; 73 were accepted for presentation at the meeting, after extensive peer review by a program committee of over 200 researchers in the area. Read more


August 1, 2013



Posts navigation

‹Older posts





 
Search



 


(c) 2015 Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems

WordPress/BonPress






