https://www.stat.uci.edu/uci-news-ucis-graduate-programs-shine-in-u-s-news-world-report-rankings




UCI News: “UCI’s Graduate Programs Shine in U.S. News & World Report Rankings” 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
UCI News: “UCI’s Graduate Programs Shine in U.S. News & World Report Rankings”
March 29, 2022 
Computer Science and Statistics graduate programs are in the top 20 among public universities.
The University of California, Irvine’s graduate programs in education and chemistry place in the nation’s top 10 among public universities in U.S. News & World Report’s annual graduate school rankings, published online today. Nine other fields of advanced study are in the top 20 among public universities, marking UCI as one of the leading locations in the country for students to pursue graduate degrees.

“UCI has established itself as a world-class public research university in a wide range of graduate disciplines,” said Gillian Hayes, vice provost for graduate education and dean of the Graduate Division. “These rankings confirm that our campus offers challenging and intellectually rich opportunities for students of all backgrounds to achieve academic and professional excellence.”
Graduate programs at UCI within the top 20 among public universities are:
Biology, 12th (32nd overall)Business – fully employed MBA, 14th (25th overall)Computer science, 14th (28th overall)Law, 16th (37th overall)Economics, 17th (38th overall)Statistics, 18th (27th overall)Business – full-time MBA, 19th (44th overall)Public health, 19th (31st overall)Math, 20th (37th overall)
UCI is one of the top doctorate-granting institutions in the U.S., offering more than 120 master’s and Ph.D. programs. It has over 6,000 students engaged in advanced scholarship and research. In 2021, UCI granted 845 master’s degrees and 289 Ph.D.s.
Read the full story on UCI News.

« UCI Deep Learning Researchers Advance Theory and Practice of Data CompressionCulture of Collaboration Leads to Cutting-Edge Work in AI »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







