https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-machine-learning-repository-to-host-2022-ml-hackathon




UCI Machine Learning Repository to Host 2022 ML Hackathon 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI Machine Learning Repository to Host 2022 ML Hackathon
April 26, 2022 

The UCI Machine Learning (ML) Repository will host its 12-day Machine Learning Hackathon from May 18 to May 29. By participating in the hackathon, students will have the opportunity to work with real-world artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies through the UCI ML Repository. 

“I’d encourage students to participate for the opportunity to contribute to something that’s used by millions worldwide,” says Tamanna Hossain, the hackathon organizer and a computer science doctoral student. “The UCI ML Repository contains hundreds of datasets used for machine learning research and education.” 
Hackathon participants should aim to use features of the ML Repository to build projects that can be added to the repository. Students’ discoveries may be used by the larger ML community for various purposes, such as alongside relevant datasets to solve a problem. 
“Successful teams may be encouraged to continue developing their project after the event jointly with UCI’s machine learning repository research team,” the hackathon event page reads. “All participants will create open source work, allowing other teams or researchers to further their initial progress.”
The hackathon is open to UCI students of all majors and academic backgrounds, but the UCI ML Repository says having prior experience with ML will help students better succeed. Participants can work individually or in teams of up to four students and can meet with members of the repository for guidance. 
A number of features from the UCI ML Repository will be available for students to use in their hackathon projects: “visualization of datasets, automatic statistical analysis of datasets and ML methods, evaluation pipeline, dataset recommendation system, natural language processing,” among others.
“Working on a real-world use case with broad impact can be a powerful teacher and a fulfilling experience,” says Hossain. 
The winning projects will receive monetary prizes. They will also be credited as contributors to the UCI ML Repository if their submissions get incorporated into the repository website.
Registration for the ML Hackathon is open until May 16. For more information, visit the ML Hackathon page at tinyurl.com/UCI-ML-HACK. 
— Karen Phan
« Inaugural ICS Summer Academy on Data Analytics Now Accepting ApplicationsUCI Celebration of Teaching Honors Three ICS Faculty Members »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




