https://www.ics.uci.edu/~iftekha/publication/towards-understanding-code-readability-and-its-impact-on-design-quality





















Towards understanding code readability and its impact on design quality. | 






Toggle navigation










Home




Research Group




Research




Publications




Awards




Projects




Experience




CV and Resume




Service




Contact




Advice








Towards understanding code readability and its impact on design quality.

      
      Umme Ayda Mannan, Iftekhar Ahmed, Anita Sarma
      
    


































Abstract
Readability of code is commonly believed to impact the overall quality of software. Poor readability not only hinders developers from understanding what the code is doing but also can cause developers to make sub-optimal changes and introduce bugs. Developers also recognize this risk and state readability among their top information needs. Researchers have modeled readability scores. However, thus far, no one has investigated how readability evolves over time and how that impacts design quality of software. We perform a large scale study of 49 open source Java projects, spanning 8296 commits and 1766 files. We find that readability is high in open source projects and does not fluctuate over project’s lifetime unlike design quality of a project. Also readability has a non-significant correlation of 0.151 (Kendall’s τ ) with code smell count (indicator of design quality). Since current readability measure is unable to capture the increased difficulty in reading code due to the degraded design quality, our results hint towards the.




Type


            Conference proceedings
          










Publication
In 4th ACM SIGSOFT International Workshop on NLP for Software Engineering.









Date

          May, 2018
        









Links


  PDF













← A Case Study of Motivations for Corporate Contribution to FOSS
How verified (or tested) is my code? Falsification-driven verification and testing →







      © 2020 Iftekhar Ahmed · 

      Powered by the Academic
      theme for Hugo.

      




















