https://cradl.ics.uci.edu/people





People | CRADL Lab




























Home
News
People
Projects
Publications
 













People




Faculty

David Redmiles, ProfessorProjects: VOSS trust project, Distributed Software Development in Virtual WorldsFull profile | Website
David Redmiles is a Professor in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences and a member of the Institute for Software Research (ISR) at the University of California, Irvine (UCI). He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Colorado, Boulder, in 1992. He has been on the faculty at UCI since 1994 and was Chair of the Department of Informatics from 2004 to 2011. He has a background in software engineering, human-computer interaction, and computer-supported cooperative work. For the past decade, he has been researching collaborative software engineering.

Researchers

Matthew Bietz, Research AssociateProjects: VOSS trust project, Distributed Software Development in Virtual WorldsFull profile | Website
I study collaboration practices in distributed groups. Most of my work has focused on scientific domains, including medical research, microbiology, oceanography, and astronomy. In the CRADL Lab, I am studying trust among distributed software engineers, and the use of virtual worlds to support collaborative knowledge work.


Hiroko Wilensky, Visiting ResearcherProjects: Communities of Practice and Knowledge DisseminationFull profile | Website
I am a visiting researcher at UCI and a software engineer at Boeing Company. My research interests are computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW), knowledge management (KM), communities of practice and work, technology and organizations (WTO). In short, I am interested in what role technology plays in people’s work practices and their formal and informal communities at their workplaces.

Ph.D. Students


Zhendong Wang, Ph.D. Student
Full profile | Website
Zhendong is a Ph.D student in the Department of Informatics at University of California, Irvine. Zhendong works with Professor David Redmiles to investigate expert developers’ activities and their impact to the software project particularly in the context of open source community. Zhendong got his master degree in Software Engineering at University of California, Irvine, and B.S. degrees in Computer Science and Mathematics at University of Nebraska Lincoln.


 
Yang Yue, Ph.D. Student
Full profile | Website
Yang is a second year PhD student in the Department of Informatics at University of California, Irvine. Yang works with Professor David Redmiles to study the collaboration in Software Engineering, including the diversity and inclusiveness of the open-source community. Yang got his master degree in Software Engineering at Peking University (PKU), focusing on machine learning applications. And he got his B.S degree in Software Engineering at East China Normal University (ECNU).

Associates


Mengyao Zhao, Ph.D. Full profile | Website
Mengyao is a 4th year Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Informatics at University of California, Irvine. Mengyao works with Professor David Redmiles to explore how to use playful drawing activities to help distributed teams to build trust, team cohesion, and positive emotions. Mengyao got her master degree in HCI/design at Indiana University and a B.S. degree in Digital Media Art at Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications (BUPT). She has previously interned at Xerox as a UX designer and as a UX researcher at Google.


Tao Wang, Ph.D. Full profile | Website
Tao Wang is a Ph.D. candidate at the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Science, UC Irvine. His research interests are web accessibility, assistive technology, and Human Computer Interaction in general. He is motivated to design systems that could improve the quality of life for people living with impaired abilities due to illness or aging. In his current research, he explores the opportunities and applications of synthesized spatial audio to screen reading programs designed for blind web users. He employs mixed methods to ensure accurate understanding of the issues and the effect of designs.


Erik Trainer, Ph.D.Project: VOSS trust projectFull profile | Website
 
Erik Trainer was an Informatics-Software PhD Candidate under the supervision of Prof. David Redmiles in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at UC Irvine. His research interests include software tools and visualizations of collaborative activity to support awareness and engender trust in distributed software teams. Erik’s dissertation committee was comprised of Professors David Redmiles, Andre van der Hoek, and James Jones.

Ban Al-Ani, Project ScientistProject: VOSS trust projectFull profile | Website
 
Dr. Ban Al-Ani was a project scientist and lecturer at Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. Her research focuses on understanding users of technology in different contexts, namely: civilians’ use of technologies during crises, developers in distributed teams, programmers, and volunteer coordinators in non-profit organizations. She is studying trust in distributed teams with the CRADL team.


Werner Beuschel, Visiting Prof./ResearcherProject: Social Media, Information architecture and usability of open design systems with touchboardsFull profile | Website
Dr. Werner Beuschel is professor of Information Management at Brandenburg University of Applied Sciences, visiting ICS ever since his first post-graduate stay in 1989. His current research focuses on Social Media use and policy aspects and on usability issues of open design systems.


Benjamin Koehne, Ph.D.Project: Distributed Collaboration & Learning in Virtual WorldsFull profile | Website
Benjamin Koehne was Ph.D. candidate in the Donald Bren School of Information Science at UC Irvine working with Prof. David Redmiles as his advisor. Before joining the department of Informatics at UC Irvine, he graduated from Stuttgart Media University in Germany with a Master’s degree in Business Information Management. At UC Irvine, he has since received a Master’s degree in Information and Computer Science in 2010. His research focuses on enabling distributed and collaborative software development processes in virtual worlds. He is particularly interested in end-user design using virtual world technology.


Oliver Wang, Ph.D.Project: VOSS trust project & SCALEFull profile | Website
Yi Wang (Oliver) is an assistant professor in the Software Engineering Department at Rochester Institute of Technology. Oliver is fascinated by the complex dynamics of collaboration in Globally Distributed Team. His research focuses on three interrelated areas: 1. using game theory to investigate collaborations in globally distributed teams, 2. developing novel game theory analytics and software tools to support distributed collaboration; 3. learning and modeling the individual’s characteristics from user-generated social media. He believes better collaboration and coordination will eventually help to build high-quality software systems. Oliver completed his Ph.D. degree in information and computer science at the University of California, Irvine.​

Bruno Chagas, Visiting Scholar
 
Bruno holds a Master’s degree in Computer Science from Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (PUC-Rio, 2015) and a bachelor’s degree in Computer Engineering from Universidade Estadual de Campinas (UNICAMP, 2000). He has about 10 years of professional experience in the areas of software engineering, architecture, development and system’s integration. Currently, he is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro (PUC-Rio) and an entrepreneur. He began his Ph.D. research in 2015 in the area of End-User Development for the Internet of Things. Currently, he is doing an internship as a visiting scholar at University of California, Irvine, USA.

 














News


SuCSES is coming!


Site Tools

Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.org

 


CRADL receives funding from the National Science Foundation under grants 0943262, 0808783, and 1111446.
 
Department of Informatics | Donald Bren School of Information and Computer SciencesBren Hall 5042 | University of California, Irvine | Irvine, CA 92697-3440cradl_info@ics.uci.edu
 
Powered by WordPress | Theme: Yoko by Elmastudio | Header image: E. Howe
Top




