https://www.stat.uci.edu/womens-history-month-resources-for-empowering-women-in-tech




Women’s History Month: Resources for Empowering Women in Tech 































Department of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer SciencesDepartment of Statistics - Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences
Explore

Chair’s Welcome
What is Statistics?
Contact the Department
Tutoring Resources


Faculty

Faculty Directory
Job Opportunities


Research
Graduate Degrees

M.S. & Ph.D. in Statistics
Master of Data Science
Current Course Listings
Graduate Student Directory
Internships & Employment Opportunities
Employers of UCI Statistics Students


Undergraduate Degrees

B.S. in Data Science
Minor in Statistics
Current Course Listings


News & Seminars

News
Seminars


Center for Statistical Consulting
Women’s History Month: Resources for Empowering Women in Tech
March 2, 2022 
In honor of Women’s History Month, the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) has pulled together a list of resources for empowering women in technology, including on-campus groups, nationwide organizations and books that focus on women in STEM. We also highlight current leaders in tech and introduce you to some faculty members leading the way in expanding ICS education.

“Despite the fact that women remain sorely underrepresented in the tech field, there are countless women who have been pioneers in the field,” says Debra Richardson, herself a pioneer as the founding dean of ICS. She continues to pave the way for others, advocating for high-quality K-12 computer science education and serving as an advisory board member of Women in Technology at UCI (WIT@UCI).
“Women’s History Month is an important time to recognize those women who have had significant influence on computing and technology, especially because their innovations are so critical to ensuring that technology is made for everyone,” says Richardson. “Yet this month is also an important time for changing the narrative and acknowledging women currently contributing to the field and continuing to widen the trail for those who will follow.”
While not an exhaustive list, we hope you view the following as a foundation for reflecting on the gender gap in STEM fields and the tech industry.
Supporting Women at UCIWe start by listing some of the organizations focused on supporting women at UCI:
The Academic & Professional Women of UCI (A&PW) has a decades-long history at UCI with a longstanding tradition of supporting staff, faculty and students with a special emphasis on the women of UCI.The Society of Women Engineers (SWE) is a not-for-profit educational and service organization that serves as the driving force to establish engineering as a highly desirable career aspiration for women.Women in Information and Computer Sciences (WICS) is a social and professional nonprofit organization at UCI established to help and encourage women to pursue a college degree and a successful career in the computer science field.Women in Leadership (WIL) empowers women to believe in themselves and set goals to achieve their dreams.Women in Technology at UCI (WIT@UCI) provides a supportive community that recognizes and brings awareness to gender imbalances surrounding women with careers in technology and offers innovative approaches and solutions by connecting and empowering women together.Women & Youth Supporting Each Other (WYSE) is a national nonprofit mentorship organization dedicated to strengthening the lives and communities of young women through a curriculum-based group and one-on-one mentorship program.Womxn’s Center for Success advances gender equity by raising consciousness on social justice concepts, fostering personal growth, building community connections, encouraging identity development and increasing access to resources that support holistic wellness.
Closing the Gender Gap in TechBeyond UCI, there are many organizations nationwide working to increase the representation of women in the tech industry:
Ada’s List is the place for professional women and nonbinary people who work in the tech sector to connect, conspire and take a stand.The Anita Borg Institute connects, inspires and guides women in computing and organizations that view technology innovation as a strategic imperative.Black Girls Code empowers girls of color ages 7-17 to be STEM leaders.Girls Develop It creates welcoming, supportive opportunities for women and nonbinary adults to learn software development skills.Girls in Tech is a nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating the gender gap in tech.Girls Who Code is working with legislators to close the gender gap in tech in K-12 classrooms.League of Women Coders is a grassroots collective that focuses on coding, hacking and learning together.Lesbians Who Tech is a community of LGBTQ women, nonbinary and trans individuals in and around tech (and the people who support them).The National Center for Women & Information Technology (NCWIT) is a network of change leaders focused on advancing innovation by correcting underrepresentation in computing.The Next IT Girl educates, mentors and advances young women of color on all aspects of computer science and information technology.Project Include is a nonprofit that uses data and advocacy to accelerate diversity and inclusion solutions in the tech industry.PyLadies is an international mentorship group with a focus on helping more women become active participants and leaders in the Python open-source community.R Ladies is a worldwide organization to promote gender diversity in the R community.Women 2.0 is a company focused on gender, diversity and inclusion in the tech and startup spaces.Women in Technology International (WITI) is a leading organization for the advancement and inclusion of women in business and technology.Women Who Code inspires women to excel in technology careers.
Reading and LearningHere, we offer some suggested reading with a list that ranges from children’s books on coding and Grace Hopper to discussions of the “boys’ club,” sexist apps and female innovators:
Broad Band: The Untold Story of the Women Who Made the Internet by Claire EvansBrotopia: Breaking Up the Boys’ Club of Silicon Valley by Emily ChangData Feminism by Catherine D’Ignazio and Lauren F. KleinFemale Innovators at Work: Women on Top of Tech by Danielle NewnhamGirl Code: Gaming, Going Viral, and Getting It Done by Andrea Gonzales and Sophie Houser (teen book)Girls Who Code: Learn to Code and Change the World by Reshma Saujani (children’s book)Grace Hopper: Queen of Computer Code by Laurie Wallmark (children’s book)Innovating Women: The Changing Face of Technology by Vivek Wadhwa and Farai ChideyaLife in Code: A Personal History of Technology by Ellen UllmanRecoding Gender: Women’s Changing Participation in Computing by Janet AbbateTechnically Wrong: Sexist Apps, Biased Algorithms, and Other Threats of Toxic Tech by Sara Wachter-BoettcherWomen of Color in Tech: A Blueprint for Inspiring and Mentoring the Next Generation of Technology Innovators by Susanne TedrickWomen in Tech: Take Your Career to the Next Level with Practical Advice and Inspiring Stories by Tarah Wheeler

Also, be sure to read the article, “‘It’s Just Human Dignity.’ Trans Writers and Journalists Struggle to Get Old Bylines Corrected,” which highlights ICS Professor Theresa Jean Tanenbaum and her extensive work to make name-change policies more inclusive.
“Facilitating name changes in our digital platforms is an equity issue that extends far beyond the needs of transgender people,” says Tanenbaum, who helped release guiding principles that have since been adopted by most major publishers. “While the particular vulnerabilities of trans people are what motivated the creation of these policies, I anticipate them being used to address long-standing inequalities that have disproportionately harmed women.” And at the top of her own suggested reading list is Nora Berenstain’s work on Epistemic Exploitation, which she views as “required reading for anyone seeking to do any work on equity and inclusion.”
Following Influential LeadersWe also offer a sampling of the many women doing trailblazing work in STEM fields:
Allie K. Miller is the global head of machine learning business development for startups and venture capital at Amazon.Avril Haines is the first woman to lead the U.S. Intelligence Community.Carmen Fontana is an emerging tech leader, enthusiast and investor.Cassie Kozyrkov is a data scientist at Google with a mission of democratizing decision intelligence and safe, reliable AI.Cathy Hackl is a web 3.0 strategist and tech futurist.Danah Boyd is a partner researcher at Microsoft Research and the founder of Data & Society.Ellen Pao is co-founder and CEO of Project Include and co-author of Reset: My Fight for Inclusion and Lasting Change.Geeta Nayyar is a recognized leader in healthcare information technology.Jessie Woolley-Wilson is president and CEO of DreamBox Learning, which offers online math instruction and assessment for K-8 students.Joy Buolamwini is a poet of code and founder of the Algorithmic Justice League.Kate Crawford is co-founder of New York University’s AI Now Institute and author of Atlas of AI: Power, Politics, and the Planetary Costs of Artificial Intelligence.
Kate Gunderson is a mechanical and aerospace engineer on a mission to encourage women to confidently thrive in the world of STEM.Reshma Saujani is founder and CEO of Girls Who Code.
Highlighting Women in ICSWomen make up close to 30 percent of the faculty teaching and conducting research in ICS. Here, we highlight a few who are leading the way in advancing ICS education and broadening its reach.

Mine Dogucu is an assistant professor of teaching and vice chair of undergraduate studies in the Department of Statistics. She focuses on curriculum design and creating educational resources in statistics and data science that are accessible to novice statisticians. In particular, she has worked to make Bayesian statistics accessible at the undergraduate level, co-authoring the book Bayes Rules! An Introduction to Applied Bayesian Modeling. She also co-teaches Data Science in Health Sciences to high school students as part of the California State Summer School for Mathematics and Science at UCI, and she co-chairs the national Undergraduate Statistics Project Competition and Electronic Undergraduate Statistics Research Conference (USPROC/eUSR). You can check out her blog posts on DataPedagogy.com. In addition to pedagogical research, her work includes collaborative research in applications of survey design, measurement, and missing data.
“As educators, it should be our primary goal to adopt inclusive teaching strategies as opposed to gatekeeping strategies,” says Dogucu. “As we celebrate Women’s History Month, it is important to remind ourselves that gender identity is one form of identity. The inclusion in STEM should serve beyond gender identity and should be inclusive of the intersection of gender, racial, ethnic and class identities, as well as sexual orientation and disability status.”

Emily Navarro is a continuing lecturer in the Department of Informatics. She earned her bachelor’s degree in biology and her master’s and Ph.D. in ICS from UCI. Her dissertation, “SimSE: A Software Engineering Simulation Environment for Software Process Education,” resulted in an educational game that helps students learn and practice the software engineering process in a graphical, interactive and entertaining setting. SimSE is used today in university classrooms around the world. Navarro currently teaches classes centered around various software engineering topics, including requirements, design, programming and project management.
“Every female in STEM at UCI has a valuable contribution to make to the field, based on their unique background, strengths, and experiences,” says Navarro. “It is only when we welcome and encourage more women and other underrepresented groups into STEM does the field and the world in general benefit through better representation of the population at large.”

Jennifer Wong-Ma is an associate professor of teaching and vice chair of undergraduate studies in the Department of Computer Science. She is also a faculty adviser of UCI’s Women in Information and Computer Sciences (WICS) and Commit the Change student organizations, co-chair of the Computer Science and Engineering Steering Committee, and a member of the Women in Technology at UCI (WIT@UCI) advisory board. She teaches systems and architecture courses and oversees the undergraduate ICS tutoring program. Her research interests include creating and studying the effectiveness of automated tools in CS education, hardware intellectual property protection, and wireless and distributed embedded systems. She received her Ph.D. in computer science from UCLA.
“As a faculty member, I strive every day to be an inspiration and role model for younger women in the field,” says Wong-Ma. “I feel a responsibility to guide women through the ongoing challenges faced. By sharing my experiences, stories and reflections through my various roles on campus, it is my hope that it will empower others to enact further change within their own careers.”
— Shani Murray

« Statistics Ph.D. Student Isaac Goldstein Receives La Verne Noyes FellowshipUniversity of California Health and CDPH COVID Modeling Consortium awards grant funding to further COVID-19 data research »

Latest News


UCI’s Master of Data Science to Launch Part-Time Program in Fall 2023
October 10, 2022


New Faculty Spotlight: Statistics Professor Hengrui Cai Strives for Real-World Impact
September 22, 2022


SoCal Data Science Program Off to a Strong Start
September 21, 2022


Undergraduates Conduct Biostatistics Research at New Summer Institute at UCI
September 13, 2022


Professors Nan and Gillen Receive $1.8M Grant to Study Statistical Methods for Alzheimer’s Research
August 29, 2022



 News Archive


 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy







