https://www.cs.uci.edu/hack-at-uci-hosts-hybrid-hackuci-2022




Hack at UCI Hosts Hybrid HackUCI 2022 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Hack at UCI Hosts Hybrid HackUCI 2022
March 4, 2022 
Hack at UCI hosted its annual HackUCI hackathon, the largest collegiate hackathon in Orange County, in a hybrid format on Feb. 25-27. With more than 300 students in attendance from over 10 different schools, HackUCI 2022 proved to be a hit once again and generated projects ranging from artificial intelligence models to fitness applications.
Hacks were judged based on the technology used to build the project, the quality of the project and the purpose of the project. Here are the winning hacks from HackUCI 2022: 


Best Overall Hack: ukr.aiIn light of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, the team behind ukr.ai created an AI model that detects misinformation on social media networks “to help counteract the damage done by disinformation and propaganda campaigns.” Users can enter information or a link to a tweet in the ukr.ai text box. The application uses OpenAI’s GPT-3 model to determine whether or not the information is true. 
ukr.ai was created by:
Patrick Hu: junior computer science major, UCITan Huynh: junior computer engineering major, UCIStella Zhou: junior computer engineering major and accounting minor, UCIPranav Grover: junior electrical and computer engineering major, Santa Clara UniversityAlex Rabinovich: junior computational mathematics major, UC Riverside
Best Overall Hack Runner-Up: tell-a-visionTell-a-vison brings stories to life by compiling photos to create a moving storyboard. You can “tell-a-vize” your own story by recording yourself reciting a script, which will be read back to you with additional sitcom laugh tracks. The tell-a-vision team used the Web Search API to search for relevant images based on your recorded story and produce a video with those images and your audio. 
tell-a-vision was created by:
Joshua Costa: senior computer science major, UCI Quinn Forde: senior education sciences and international studies major, UCIFernando Gomez: senior informatics major, UCIJia Li Huang: senior computer science major, UCI
Google Cloud Platform Hack: ZuberCarpooling is a convenient and environmentally friendly commuting option, but sometimes it can be a nightmare to plan. However, by creating an event page on the Zuber app and adding attendees, passengers and drivers are paired up based on distance so that drivers pick up passengers who are closest to them. Zuber also automatically creates a group chat with drivers and passengers who are in the same car. 
Zuber was created by:
Ethan Nguyen: junior computer science major, UCIChris Tian: junior computer science major, UCIJane Vo: junior computer science major, UCIAlec Chen: senior computer science major and sociology minor, UCI
Google Cloud Platform Hack Runner-Up and Most Polished Game: ZotGuessrDo you know the UCI campus like the back of your hand? You can test your knowledge of the campus layout and learn fun facts about UCI with the web-based app ZotGuessr. Players select where they think a building is on the app’s Google Maps interface, and the closer they are to the building’s actual location, the more points they get.
ZotGuessr was built by:
Advay Anand: sophomore computer science major, UCIDouglas Hong: sophomore computer science major, UCIEric Huang: sophomore computer science major, UCI Davin Singh: sophomore computer science major, UCIKevin Wong: sophomore computer science major, UCI
Best Use of Mage API for AI/ML (Mage) and Best AI Hack (AI@UCI): BiascopeBiascope “empowers users to be active consumers of news” with artificial intelligence. The Biascope team utilized Mage AI’s platform to train a classification algorithm that identifies and highlights biased language in articles, which can encourage readers to think more critically about the information they’re learning and how language affects their understanding.
Biascope was created by: 
Tae Wook (Terry) Kim: sophomore computer science engineering major with minors in mathematics and business analytics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Ravi Riley: sophomore electrical engineering and computer science major, UC BerkeleyJad Soucar: sophomore mathematics major and philosophy minor, UCLA
Best UI/UX: move.ioExercising at home can be challenging when you lack motivation or the assistance of a trainer. move.io aims to make fitness at home more consistent, engaging and safe. Their website includes a variety of tools and resources, from sharing online workouts to providing real-time feedback on user performance. 
move.io was created by:
Shawn Cho: junior computer science major and mathematics minor, University of WashingtonWoo Young Kim: junior human centered design engineer major, University of WashingtonSohshun Tateishi: junior geography data science major, University of Washington
Best Product Pitch (MAISS) and Social Good Hack: WaitlessWaitless hopes to make going to the Anteater Recreation Center less stressful. Students can log into the Waitless app and join a queue to use a gym machine. When the equipment is ready to use, they’ll receive a text message informing them that it’s their turn. Once a student is at the machine, they’ll scan a QR code to confirm that they’re currently using it and then remove themselves from the queue when they’re finished. 
Waitless was created by:
Brandon Chan: freshman computer science major, UCILee Austin Uy: sophomore software engineering major, UCIEmil Zublin: sophomore computer science and engineering major, UCIAdil Quamar: junior computer science and engineering major, UCIAbhishek Jha: graduate computer science student, UCI 
Best Meme/Joke Hack:  Color “Meme”Color “Meme” makes coloring a social activity by generating random memes that users can color and then send to their friends. In the future, the Color “Meme” team hopes to offer new game modes in their virtual coloring book that allows users to interact with their friends in real-time. 
Color “Meme” was created by:
 Noah Jacinto: sophomore computer science major, California State University, Long BeachAlex Vega: sophomore computer science major, California State University, Long Beach 
Best Beginner Hack: ZotcietyIf you feel like you’ve lost all of your social skills during these past two years, why not try out Zotciety? The web-based application helps you connect with others by answering ZotPrompts (ice-breaker questions) and completing ZotTrials (challenges that encourage you to socialize in person). Points from ZotTrials are recorded on a ZotBoard. 
Zotciety was created by: 
Cheryl Chen: freshman computer science major, UCIChloe Cheng: freshman computer science major, UCIMichelle Lin: freshman computer science major, UCIMichael Pien: freshman computer science major, UCIKristen Yee: freshman business information management major, UCI
Hacker’s Choice: Steam Game CompilerSteam Game Compiler is the perfect app for those who play Steam games. It provides users quick access to information about Steam games, such as positive and negative ratings, number of active players, current news. This information helps players quickly decide whether or not they want to play and purchase a game.
Steam Game Compiler was created by:
Jake Gerber: freshman computer science major, UCI Tanush Goel: freshman computer science major, UCIJustin Liao: freshman computer science major, UCIKevin Liu: freshman computer science major, UCI
All projects from HackUCI 2022 participants can be found at the HackUCI 2022 Devpost. 
Hack at UCI will collaborate with Women in Information and Computer Science to hold VenusHacks, UCI’s largest women-centric hackathon, in the spring 2022 quarter.
— Karen Phan
« Ph.D. Student Ping-Xiang Chen Awarded J. Yang & Family Foundation FellowshipUCI News: “UCI researchers develop hybrid human-machine framework for building smarter AI” »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




