http://www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/degrees/degree_cgs.php



undergraduate degree in computer game science @ the bren school of information and computer sciences












Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Undergraduate / Degrees


Computer Game Science undergraduate degree

Are you curious how computer games work on the inside? Do you want to learn how you can use computer games for social good? Do you have creative ideas for fun new mobile games? Can you foresee yourself programming intelligent avatars for a major title? Have thoughts about the visual appearance of new virtual worlds?
If you answered yes to one or more of these questions, UC Irvine’s computer game science major just might be the choice for you.
What will I learn?
The B.S. in computer game science is designed around a set of core courses that introduce the fundamentals of computer science (programming, data structures, graphics and artificial intelligence), math (statistics, linear algebra and logic), and games (games and society, game design, game engines and multiplayer games). From there, nearly thirty electives offer students the chance to specialize, focusing anywhere from typical game topics such as modeling, world building and mobile games to more peripheral topics such as software design and social impacts.
Throughout the major, students gain hands-on experience in creating a variety of digital games, for entertainment purposes, but also for education, training and engendering social change. Working in teams, you will employ a variety of different programming languages, game platforms and hardware. This culminates in the two-quarter capstone course, in which you will be part of a team that designs and implements a new game from scratch under the supervision of game designers from the local industry.
Overall, the major strongly emphasizes the technical aspects of creating games, as well as working in teams to design and implement them. You will be prepared to adapt to what are the always-changing circumstances of the profession — whether it is a new game platform, newly emerging game mechanics, or new ways of earning revenue.
Careers
Because of the strong technical underpinnings of the degree program, demand for our computer game science majors is strong. The majority find employment in the industry, whether at a major publisher, smaller studio or as self-employed freelancers. Many squarely focus on entertainment, others succeed in bringing their skills to the design and development of serious games in a variety of domains, including healthcare and education.
Of course, graduate school in game design, interactive media, computer science, informatics or related field is a career path that a portion of our students also choose to take after they complete the major.
Qualifications
We welcome students with a variety of backgrounds. We have had students join who were avid gamers and already knew how to program, and students who were merely curious about games and did not yet know how to program. Both groups are successful in the major.
If you have an interest in solving problems, aspire to creative thinking, and have an affinity with design, computer game science can be for you.
Why computer game science at UC Irvine?

Excellence. You will be part of a world-class group of faculty and staff, who have an outstanding track record of delivering innovative educational experiences in — and beyond — the classroom.
Depth. With no fewer than ten courses dedicated to games, and dozens more on topics closely surrounding it, you receive an education that prepares you very well for the many challenges that will arise in your future career.
Connections. Our alumni have gone on to study in some of the most prestigious Ph.D. programs, work for well-known, innovative corporations and found successful startups. We stay in touch with them, and can help connect you with for internships that complement your studies.
Location. Orange County has a very vibrant and diverse tech industry, and is just a mere hop away from Silicon Valley.

Detailed requirements
Please see the catalogue for a detailed description of the requirements of the computer game science major.
4 Year Sample Plan
More information

Prospective and current UCI students interested in learning more about the Bren School’s degree options are encouraged to contact us at
ucounsel@uci.edu.





More Undergraduate

Contact
News and Updates
Academic advising
Course updates
Academic year plan
ICS majors

GDIM FAQ page
Double major
2nd baccalaureate


ICS minors
Newly Admitted to ICS
Petitions & Forms
Policies

Academic honesty
Academic standing
Add, drop, & change options
Change of Major
Concurrent Enrollment
Coursework outside UCI
CS 199 / IN4MATX 199
Grade policy
ICS Credit by Exam
Laptop & computer use
Withdrawal/Readmission
ICS 192 Enrollment/CPT&OPT


Graduation
ICS student life
ICS Honors Program
Computing support
Title IX Resources









Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤











