https://www.cs.uci.edu/ph-d-student-phanwadee-sinthong-and-professor-carey-win-best-student-paper-award




Ph.D. Student Phanwadee Sinthong and Professor Carey Win Best Student Paper Award 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Ph.D. Student Phanwadee Sinthong and Professor Carey Win Best Student Paper Award
January 3, 2020 
The Best Student Paper at the 2019 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (BigData 2019) was “AFrame: Extending DataFrames for Large-Scale Modern Data Analysis” by computer science Ph.D. student Phanwadee Sinthong and Computer Science Professor Michael J. Carey.

“I was truly honored and excited,” says Sinthong, whose research focus is in the area of databases. “I have been working on incorporating database management capabilities with existing data science technologies to help support and enhance big data analysis.”
Phanwadee Sinthong (left) accepts the Best Student Paper Award at IEEE BigData 2019.
In the conference paper, Sinthong and Carey introduce AFrame, a new scalable data analysis package. “We noticed technical challenges and difficulties that data scientists face when moving from small to big data analysis,” explains Sinthong. In an effort to make data management capabilities for large-scale modern data available to the data science community, they have integrated a development paradigm familiar to data scientists (DataFrame) with a big data management system, Apache AsterixDB.“AFrame can be used in various data analysis projects that need to interact with and manipulate local or distributed data,” says Sinthong. “We have already had students conduct end-to-end projects using AFrame in place of Python’s popular Pandas DataFrame package for data that cannot fit in memory and achieve satisfactory results.”
The work was supported by a yearlong exploration grant from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS). Sinthong and Carey welcome feedback and would like to have more students trying it out. For more information, contact Professor Carey at mjcarey@ics.uci.edu.
— Shani Murray
« Explore Virtual Reality With New VR Headsets Loan Program and WorkshopZotBins and Zero Waste Anteaters Support UC Goal for 2020 »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




