https://www.cs.uci.edu/computer-science-lecturer-shannon-alfaro-named-dtei-faculty-fellow




Computer Science Lecturer Shannon Alfaro Named DTEI Faculty Fellow 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Computer Science Lecturer Shannon Alfaro Named DTEI Faculty Fellow
January 23, 2019 UCI’s Division of Teaching Excellence and Innovation (DTEI) recently announced that Continuing Lecturer of Computer Science Shannon Alfaro has been named a 2018­–19 Faculty Fellow, along with Paul Spencer from the School of Humanities. DTEI works with faculty, graduate students and postdocs to maximize students’ academic success by cultivating exceptional learning environments. The DTEI Fellows program spotlights faculty members deeply invested in the success of their students and committed to advancing UCI’s mission of using innovative, evidence-based teaching practices.

“I love learning new ways to improve outcomes for my students,” says Alfaro, who is grateful for this opportunity to act as a Faculty Fellow, serving as a role model for others. Her commitment to teaching is evident through not only her work as a lecturer at UCI but also her position as curriculum developer for Dreams for Schools, a program focused on youth STEM education. “As curriculum developer, I’ve created materials used as part of the mentor training sessions for the DFS AppJam+ Mobile App Competition,” she explains. “Topics include effective mentoring, team-building strategies, as well as guided tutorials for a beginner-friendly mobile app-development environment.”
In the new DTEI Faculty Fellow role, Alfaro and Spencer will lead quarterly faculty reading groups, covering a broad range of topics, including how to help students develop a sense of self-attribution and tap into intrinsic motivation. In addition, they will conduct classroom observations, which can be “tremendously fun,” notes Alfaro. “I always learn a new trick or technique from watching other faculty, regardless of discipline.”
Alfaro and Spencer will also offer campus workshops to share their knowledge of evidence-based teaching practices. “Proof is imperative when instructors and students are asked to deviate from the traditional lecture-based ‘sage-on-the-stage’ teaching model,” says Alfaro. Strong evidence can convince skeptical instructors to try a new teaching practice and can help them get buy-in from the students. “Whether the goal is to increase matriculation rates for underrepresented groups within a major or to improve the mastery level of specific student learning outcomes, evidence-based teaching practices provide comfort to all parties that a trail has been blazed to a desired outcome, and that the journey is worth the effort.”
With her enthusiasm for both teaching and learning, Alfaro will continue to act as a trail blazer, furthering DTEI’s efforts to build learning environments that encourage and support student success.
— Shani Murray
« Rare Opportunity to Learn from Legendary Researcher Jeffrey D. UllmanTrio of ICS Professors Preview Tech Trends for 2019 »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




