https://www.cs.uci.edu/professor-regan-and-ph-d-student-reza-asadi-win-best-paper-award




Professor Regan and Ph.D. Student Reza Asadi Win Best Paper Award 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


Professor Regan and Ph.D. Student Reza Asadi Win Best Paper Award
November 18, 2019 

Computer science Ph.D. student Reza Asadi and Professor of Computer Science and Transportation Systems Engineering Amelia Regan won the Best Paper Award at the ACM SIGSPATIAL Workshop on Prediction of Human Mobility (PredictGIS) on Nov. 5, 2019 for their paper, “Spatio-Temporal Clustering of Traffic Data with Deep Embedded Clustering.”

Asadi’s dissertation is concerned with neural network models for spatio-temporal data forecasting and analysis. Short-term traffic prediction is an example of a problem with complex spatio-temporal data, and multivariate time-series data with spatial similarities. “In this paper, we formulate a spatio-temporal clustering problem and define temporal and spatial clusters,” says Regan, “then we propose an approach for finding temporal and spatial clusters with a deep embedded clustering model.” Because of the award, an extended version of the paper will also be published in ACM Transactions on Spatial Algorithms and Applications.
— Shani Murray
« Professor Tsudik Shares Cybersecurity Expertise During Fulbright Specialist Visit in MyanmarICS Partnership with AI2 Leads to a New Toolkit and Best Demo Paper Award »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




