https://www.ics.uci.edu/~gts






Gene Tsudik's Info Page




 Gene Tsudik  

Sleepy Passivist 
 Extinguished Professor  of Computer Science

University of Caliphoneya, Irvine 



  Some real gems, based on real talks/seminars in my school: 

 Talk Gems: Is this "Information" or "Computer Science"?

  Separated at Birth? 

 Meathead or Howard? 
  A shamelessly moralistic sermon for PhD students: 

 Ballad of Little White Rabbit 

  Crypto Poetry for the masses:  

 Zero Knowledge Made Easy, and Diffie-Hellman for Morons

  A large library of my sad and failed attempts to win the New Yorker Magazine cartoon caption contest:

 Cartoon Caption Failures


  Flowchart for prospective PhD students:  


Are you a prospective PhD student looking for an advisor? 
      If so, here is an easy and painless way to see if you and I can work together (a test in 3 parts).
 Just click here (round 1), 
then here (round 2), 
and finally here (round 3)! 
 Did you pass the test? If so, great, congrats! 
 Now, do you want to "do research" in Machine Learning, Differential Privacy, 
 or Blockchains/Cryptocurrencies?
If YES, go back to the flowchart and try again. 


  Venues and Publishers to avoid: 


 Any conference or journal soliciting submissions via  "Call for Paper" 
  IARIA 
  ICST 
  HINDAWI 
  MDPI 
  EAI 
  CREATE-NET 
  WSEAS 

  Research Interests: 


 Privacy
   Computer & Network Security
   Applied Cryptography

  My Pointers: 


UCI Networked Systems (NetSys) Graduate Program 
Security and Privacy Research Outfit (SPROUT) 
Contact  
 Google Scholar Publications
 Semantic Scholar Profile 
 DBLP Publications
Patents
Current and Former Students
Assorted Facts
Favorite Expressions
Invented Words

  Brief Bio:  
Gene Tsudik is a Distinguished Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine (UCI).  
He obtained his PhD in Computer Science from USC in 1991. Before coming to UCI in 2000, he was at IBM Zurich 
Research Laboratory  (1991-1996) and USC/ISI (1996-2000). His research interests include many topics in 
security, privacy and applied cryptography.  
Gene Tsudik is a Fulbright Scholar,  Fulbright Specialist (thrice), a fellow of ACM, IEEE, AAAS, and IFIP,
as well as a foreign member of Academia Europaea.  From 2009 to 2015 he served as Editor-in-Chief of 
ACM Transactions on Privacy and Security (TOPS, formerly known as TISSEC). He was the recipient of the
2017 ACM SIGSAC Outstanding Contribution Award, and the 2020 IFIP Jean-Claude Laprie Award. 
He also authored the first rhyming crypto-poem published as a refereed paper. 
Sadly, he has no social media presence. 







  There are two equivalence classes of idiots: 


 Those who yearn for the past that never was.
   AND
   Those who dream of the future that never will be.


  Quotidian Wisdom (speaking of idiots): 


  For every pithy inspirational quote, saying or proverb, there is army of idiiots willing to believe it.
 

  An urgent message to all humorless barbarians inhabiting this long-suffering planet: 


 As a free human being, I reserve the right to disrespect, mock, parody, laugh at,
and disbelieve  any 
  and all of your deities, saints, prophets, idols, holy fools, deans, chancellors, political leaders, gurus, kings, presidents and presidential candidates. 




