http://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/press/view_press?id=94



press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences










Skip to main content





















HOME


ABOUT


About the School


Dean's Welcome


Facts and Figures


Donald Bren Hall


Visit the Bren School


Equity & Diversity
                            


Contact Us




DEPARTMENTS


Computer Science


Informatics


Statistics




RESEARCH


Research Areas


Research Centers


Research Highlights




STUDENTS


Graduate ▸


Orientation


Prospective Students


How to Apply


Programs of Study


Academic Year Plan


Course Updates


Forms And Policies


Admissions FAQ


Funding


Housing


Computing Support


Campus Resources


Visit the Bren School


Contact




Undergraduate ▸


Contact


Academic Advising


Course Updates


Academic Year Plan


Petitions


ICS Majors


ICS Minors


Policies: Academic Integrity


Policies: Academic Standing


Policies: Add, drop, & change options


Policies: Coursework outside UCI


Policies: Grade policy


Policies: Laptop & computer use


Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission


Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses


Graduation


ICS Student Life


Upcoming Events


Computing Support




Scholarships & Fellowships


Student Jobs & Internships




PEOPLE


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students




NEWS & EVENTS


Newsroom


Events


Social Media


Publications




GET INVOLVED


Make a Gift
                                



Leadership Council


Corporate Partners


Sponsor Projects


Product Development Competition


Alumni





























Bren school home / Community / News / Press releases


Press release



September 9,  2009Carey, Li Awarded NSF Grant to Develop Technologies for Storing and Analyzing Semi-Structured DataGrant part of $2.7 million grant across three University of California campuses Michael Carey and Chen Li, professors of Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences, have been awarded a $1.8 million grant from the National Science Foundation’s Data-Intensive Computing Program.  The project entitled “ASTERIX: A Highly Scalable Parallel Platform for Semistructured Data Management and Analysis” will research and develop new technologies for storing and analyzing semi-structured data.Semi-structured data is a type of data that does not conform with the formal structure of tables and data models associated with databases.  They do, however contain tags or other markers to separate semantic elements and hierarchies of records and fields within the data. The amount of semi-structured data is increasing rapidly as the Internet has allowed for information sets beyond traditional full-text documents and databases to exist.“The evolution of the ‘human Web’, powered by HTML and HTTP, has revolutionized the way that people find information, buy things, communicate, and collaborate,” says Carey.  “Web services and semi-structured data formats are having a similar impact on the ‘machine Web’.” Semi-structured data formats like XML (Extensible Markup Language) and JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) – sets of rules for encoding documents electronically – are enriching our ability to find and interchange information.  Industry-specific needs have created XML-based data exchange standards, XML backbones have gained adoption in support of service-oriented architectures and software-as-a-service initiatives.  Other semi-structured formats, like JSON, are playing similar roles for Web-based services, and XML is being increasingly used for its original purpose of semantic document markup.  Project ASTERIX will develop new technologies for storing, querying, analyzing, and mining the rapidly increasing quantity of such semi-structured data. “Semi-structured data has been widely used in many popular Web services such as Google Map and eBay,” says Li.The funds are a part of a larger $2.7 million grant to be distributed over three years across three UC campuses. Carey and Li will be collaborating with Yannis Papakonstantinou and Alin Deutsch of UC San Diego and Vassilis Tsotras of UC Riverside.  Previously, Carey and Li were awarded $132,000 in seed funding in support of ASTERIX from a UC Discovery Grant and eBay.A Bren Professor in Information and Computer Sciences, Carey’s research interests are in database systems, information integration, service-oriented computing, middleware, distributed systems, and computer system performance evaluation.Li's research interests are in the fields of databases and information systems, including text search, data cleansing, data integration, and distributed data systems.





More news and events

News Stories
Press releases
Video highlights
Annual reports
Calendar of events


Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu.








Tweets by UCIbrenICS 

View Social Media












                        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
                		University of California, Irvine
    					6210 Donald Bren Hall
    					Irvine, CA 92697-3425
                    



  
  
  
  
  
 



UCI Homepage
UCI Directory
Faculty & Staff
Employment
ICS Intranet
Research Development
Kay Family Foundation Lab
Facilities




News
Events
Map & Directions
Accessibility Statement
Safety Procedures
Privacy Policy
Coronavirus Resources




Apply
Contact
Gift 




©  UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences






➤












