https://www.cs.uci.edu/uci-other-researchers-develop-deep-learning-technique-to-id-at-risk-anatomy-in-ct-scans




UCI, other researchers develop deep-learning technique to ID at-risk anatomy in CT scans 



 





































 this is a widget called second front page widget area

Explore

Contact Us


Faculty
Research

Research Areas
Research Centers


Graduate Degrees

Computer Science Programs
Current Graduate Students


Undergraduate Degrees
News  & Events

News
Seminar Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Research Showcase


Apply Now

Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Faculty Candidates


UCI, other researchers develop deep-learning technique to ID at-risk anatomy in CT scans
October 2, 2019 
Radiation therapy is one of the most widely used cancer treatments, but a drawback of the procedure is that it can cause collateral damage to healthy tissue in proximity to cancerous growths. Identifying organs at risk via CT scans is a difficult and labor-intensive process, but UCI computer scientists and researchers from other institutions have developed an automated technique to perform this function using a deep-learning algorithm. Their work was published recently in Nature Machine Intelligence. 

“Using our model, it’s possible to delineate an entire scan in a few seconds, a task that would take a human expert over half an hour,” said co-author Xiaohui Xie, UCI professor of computer science. “On a data set of 100 CT scans, our deep-learning method achieved an average similarity coefficient of more than 78 percent, a significant improvement over analyses done by radiation oncologists.” The researchers focused on the head and neck for their study because of the complex anatomical structures and dense distribution of organs in this part of the body. Also, unintended irradiation to sensitive tissue in this area can lead to adverse side effects such as difficulty in opening the mouth, deterioration of vision and hearing, and cognitive impairment. Xie said the success of his team’s approach can be attributed to the model’s two-stage design. First the system identifies regions containing vital organs, and then it extracts image features from these focal areas. “Our deep-learning neural network greatly enhances the ability to delineate anatomies even with low-contrast CT scans,” Xie said. “And the setup is more computationally efficient than other methods, enabling it to be done with more standard levels of graphics processing unit memory. This means the technique can be deployed more readily in actual clinics.” His collaborators were from China’s Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine and DeepVoxel Inc. of Costa Mesa.
Originally published on UCI News.
« Science 101: “AI solves a Rubik’s cube without human help” (Pierre Baldi research mentioned)Turing’s Invisible Hand: “Matching Markets @ Simons: Driven by Theory, Driving the Economy” (Vijay Vazirani mentioned) »

Latest news


Senior Spotlight: Tennis Player and CS Major Matthew Sah Serves Up Aces On and Off the Court
September 28, 2022


Register Today for the Southern California AI & Biomedicine Symposium
September 20, 2022


CPO Magazine: “A Legal View of New NIST Quantum-Resistant Algorithms” by Bryan Cunningham
September 19, 2022


UCI Ranked 24th in Undergraduate Computer Science Programs by U.S. News & World Report
September 16, 2022


Senior Spotlight: Jose Cisneros Builds Impressive Resume with Trio of Internships
September 15, 2022




 





© 2022 UC Regents
Feedback
Privacy Policy



 




